GREY'S ANATOMY2x01: Raindrops Keep Falling On My HeadOriginal Airdate: 9/25/2005Written by: Stacy McKeeDirected by: Peter Horton(Meredith is at a bar, doing shots)MVO: To be a good surgeon, you have to think like a surgeon. Emotions are messy. Tuck them neatly away and step into a clean, sterile room where the procedure is simple. Cut, suture and close. Joe: You look familiar. You been here before?Meredith: Once. That worked out really well. Joe: I know that look. It'll be one of two things. Either your boss is giving you hell or your boyfriend is. Which is it?Meredith: Both. MVO: But sometimes, you're faced with a cut that won't heal. Meredith: My boyfriend is my boss, which was a problem. But not as big a problem as the fact that my boyfriend has a wife. Joe: Tell you what, this one, it's on the house. MVO: A cut that rips it's stitches wide open. (Derek and Addison in the lobby of the hospital)Derek: Addison, what are you doing here?Addison: Your hair's different. Derek: A lot of things are different. Addison: It's longer. I like it. It's very Russell Crowe. (She tries to run her fingers through his hair but he moves back)Derek: What are you doing here?Addison: What are you doing here? You just pick up and leave everything? Your house, your practice, your friends? You had a life in Manhattan. Derek: Had. Addison: And now you have a girlfriend in Seattle. She seems sweet. Derek: The ice you're on. Thin. Addison: She's young. That whole wide-eyed, ooh he's-a-brain-surgeon thing happening, but still sweet. Which was what you were going for, right? The anti-Addison? Derek: If you came out here to try and win me back, forget about it. Addison: I did. I flew all the way across the country to reminisce over wedding photos, get drunk, fall into bed, and make you realize you can't live without me. Relax. Derek, I'm here for work. I'm helping the TTTS case you guys admitted last week and from Richard's briefing, I should be? Derek: Richard, he knew you were coming out here?Addison: He asked me to come. Didn't he tell you?Derek: No. He didn't.Addison: Hmm. Surprise. The hair, though. You know I've always had a thing for Russell Crowe. (Izzie and Alex in the locker room, Alex has ice on his eye)Izzie: Let me see it. (Looks at his eye) No lacerations, minimal swelling. George really knocked you around. Alex: He's a lightweight. Could've pinned him in a second if I wanted. Izzie: Yeah, so why didn't you?Alex: Are you kidding? I'm riding a career in Plastics all the way to the bank. Can't afford to injure these babies. (Holds up his hands) Especially over some one like O'Malley. Izzie: You had it coming. Alex: The dude punches like my sister. Izzie: Oh! So, by your definition then you got beat up by a girl. (George and Cristina enter the bar)Joe: All hail the champ! (Everyone in the bar cheers) So, my guy Alex finally got what was coming to him. Cristina: George knocked him down in one punch. You should've seen it. George: I don't want to talk about it!Joe: brag, champ, brag. You've earned it. George: Can I have a beer, please?Meredith: Let's play a game of whose life sucks the most. I'll win. I always win. Cristina: No, you don't want to play with me.Meredith: Oh, I do. I'll even go first. Derek's married. (George spits his beer out)Cristina: George, beer is dripping from your nostrils. Meredith: Told you I'd win. Cristina: No, you didn't win. Meredith: Did you hear me? I said Derek is married. As in pigheaded, adulterous, liar married. Nothing you could say could top that. Cristina: I'm pregnant. I win. (In the background Joe is groaning and holding his head. A bar patron asks him if he is alright and Joe falls over.)Cristina: Ok. Maybe Joe wins. (Meredith and Cristina rush to Joe's side.)(Joe tries to get up)Cristina: Joe, like back down. Man: The medics are coming. Joe: You called the gurney patrol?Meredith: Sit back and relax. We have to take you to the hospital to run some tests. Joe: Tests? I don't need tests. I'm fine!Cristina: Dude! You collapsed! On the floor. This is you bar. You know how filthy this floor is. Meredith: Radial pulse is strong. Cristina: Minor skull contusions. Meredith: You're sleeping with someone?George: What? Who?Cristina: Why is that such a shock? Even George managed to get some action. George: Correction. George got some syphilis. Meredith: How could I not know, you were sleeping with someone?Joe: Forget this. Cristina: Joe!Joe: The hospital is right across the street. I can sure as hell walk across the street by myself. (He stands up)Cristina: Oh, I think we should?George: No, I got him. Joe!(Seattle scenes)(Hallway of SGH)Meredith: All right. Details. You're pregnant? What are you gonna do?Cristina: Look, you know what happens to pregnant interns. I'm not switching to the vagina squad or spending my life popping zits. I'm too talented. Surgery's my life. Meredith: Which begs the question: who are you sleeping with?Cristina: Just a guy. Meredith: That's all I get? You can't just bring something like this up and expect me to drop it. Cristina: Well, watch me. (They walk up to a desk where George and Izzie are standing)Izzie: Why are you back here tonight, don't you have a date with McDreamy?George: More like McMarried.Izzie: McWhat?Meredith: I came to check on Joe. George: You think he's gonna be ok?Cristina: You think he's gonna need an operation?(Derek walks up)Derek: Operation, yes. Ok, hard to tell. Basilar artery's blown up like a balloon. Subarachnoid bleeding. Aneurysm the size of a golf ball. George: No way to clip something like that. Cristina: Not without magic fingers. Derek: Or a standstill operation. Cristina: You're doing a standstill?he's doing a standstill operation. Derek: I'd like to try. First I need some additional patient history, overnight labs, and a cerebral angio. (He tries to hand the chart to Meredith) Meredith: I'm drunk.Derek: Meredith?(Meredith walks away and George grabs the chart. Derek tries to follow Meredith but the other interns step in his way.)Izzie: (Softly) McBastard.(Derek leaves. Cristina takes the chart from George)Izzie: Ahem.George: What are you doing?Cristina: Uh?I am on her side, but we're talking a possible standstill here. Recognize. (Meredith is walking out the front door as Derek catches up to her)Derek: Meredith!Meredith: Go away!Derek: Just wait. We should discuss this. Meredith: Here's a thought. No! Quit following me!Derek: At least let me explain. Meredith: Explain? You know when you should have explained? The night we met in the bar. Before any of the rest of it. Yeah, that would have been a good time to discuss it. Derek: Look, I know how you feel. Meredith: Do you? Somehow I doubt that. Because if you did, you would shut up, and you would turn around and go back inside, because you would realize that I am this close to getting in my car and running you down in the parking lot! (She leaves, George runs up to her with an umbrella. Derek goes back inside)George: Where are your keys?Meredith: I'm fine!George: Meredith, give me your keys. Let's go home. (Derek enters Richard's room to find Addison there. They are both laughing.)Addison: ?ant the husband was the?(They stop as Derek enters the room) Well, I will be back in the morning to report for duty. And you?get some rest. (Addison leaves)Derek: What is she doing here?Richard: You and I both know she's the best in the field. Brining Addie out was a business decision, nothing personal. Derek: Oh, well, what a relief. It's not personal. It is personal to me. Richard: The working of my surgical unit don't have any?Derek: Don't include my wife!Richard: Don't include your private life! Burke will act as chief of surgery until I'm back on my feet. Derek: You gave chief to Burke. Richard: Like I said, there's no room for personal in being chief. Derek: What is that supposed to mean?Richard: How long have you have been sleeping with an intern. Derek: So, I guess part of being chief is personal. Richard: Close the door on your way out. (Seattle scenes)(Meredith lying in her bed)(Cristina in an empty OR, examining the instruments)Cristina: L.S. (Burke is standing outside the door)Cristina: Babcock. Burke: Right-angle clamp. Cristina: Oh. I'm gonna sterilize everything when I'm done. The scrub nurses won't even know I was here. Burke: My lips are sealed. So, I have a question to ask. I checked the schedule and I noticed that you and I are both off tonight. I made reservations. I have a favorite restaurant. Cristina: None of those were questions. Burke: Would you like to go out to dinner with me tonight?Cristina: You know, the OR is the one place where I can come and think. I'm thinking right now, ok?Burke: Of course. I get it. (George and Izzie are in the locker room)George: I'm not a violent person. I'm a pacifist. But, you know, he just kept pushing and push?he pushed me, I pushed back. (George keeps looking over his shoulder to where Alex is standing)George: I was pushed. And now he?Izzie: You know what, if Alex tries to lay a hand on you, just tell me, I'll take care of it. George: You?I don't need you to take care of it. If Alex starts something I'll handle it myself. I can handle it. (Bailey enters)Bailey: Ok, people, assignments. Yang, you're on discharges. O'Malley report to room E19. Grey come see me, and who was on call last night? (Bailey hands Alex and Izzie a stack of charts)Bailey: Sloppy, sloppy, sloppy. Redo these and return them to me before lunch, understood?Alex: Understood. Bailey: Karev, don't tempt me. (To Meredith) Somebody's popular. Meredith: Meaning?Bailey: There's been a special request, just for you. (Burke is walking through the hall with Patricia)Burke: The chief runs through all of this? Before lunch. After, you've got calls to return, a budget to approve, two staff meetings, and four of Richard's surgeries, including your own. Burke: Absolutely. No problem. Patricia: Virgins. (Derek enters)Derek: So. Congratulations are in order. Burke: Don't sweat it Shepherd. I'll only be your boss for a few days. Derek: I'm well aware of Richard's recovery time. I'm the one who operated on him, remember?Burke: I do. You operated. He survived and chose me to take over while recruiting your wife. Derek: Clearly, he has brain damage. Burke: Or is it your ex-wife? I'm a little fuzzy on that. Derek: We're separated. Addison: Sorry to interrupt, Dr. Burke. Burke: You're never interrupting. Derek: She's always interrupting.Addison: I was just checking to see if Dr. Burke secured the intern? (Meredith walks up)Meredith: Intern you requested? He did. (Derek looks at Addison then Burke, Burke smiles and walks away. Derek walks away and leaves Meredith and Addison there staring at each other) (Seattle scenes)(Addison and Meredith are in a patient's room, Julie has TTTS.)Addison: Define TTTS.Meredith: Twin-twin transfusion syndrome. Conjoined fetal twins. Addison: Connected by?Meredith: Blood vessels in the placenta. Addison: Meaning? (Pause, Meredith does not answer) One twin gets too much blood, the other too little, endangering the lives of both. I'd expect you to know that, Grey. Julie: They told me there wasn't much chance anything could be done. Addison: TTTS is usually impossible to correct. Unless you happen to be one of a handful of surgeons in the world who knows how to separate fetal blood vessels. Which, luckily for you, I am. So were gonna get you into surgery tomorrow. If you have any questions at all please ask Dr. Grey. From what I have seen, she is one the hospital's most popular interns. (They walk into the hallway)Meredith: I could've answered your question had you given me the chance. Addison: Chin up, Grey. I'm this tough on everyone, not just the women my husband sleeps with. Order an ultrasound for her and pre-op labs in full. (Julie overheard the conversation between Addison and Meredith)(George goes to the nurses station)George: Hi. Can I have the chart for E19, please? Thank you. (He looks at the chart and realizes that it is the chiefs)Richard: Oh, good, you're here. Let's get started. George: Ok. (George starts examining the chief)Richard: O'Malley?George: Yeah?Richard: You're touching me. George: Yeah. Richard: No. Carmen?(He brushes off the nurse) I want you to listen to me very carefully. As long as I'm in here, I don't know what's happening out there. With my doctors. My patients. My hospital. You are my eyes today, my ears. I want you to be a sponge. George: A sponge?Richard: You repost any and everything happening in this hospital to me. George: I'm an investigative sponge. Richard: I'm not fooling around, O'Malley. There's too much been happening lately under my radar. It stops today. (George is in the hallway "sponging." Derek walks by and runs into Burke)Derek: Burke you gave Grey to Addison. Are you sure about that?Burke: That's not you call, Shepherd. And for the record, I'm always sure. Did you need me for something? Because as the new chief, I'm? Derek: Interim chief. Burke: "Chief" nonetheless. Derek: Ever attempt a standstill surgery?(Derek, Cristina and Burke are talking to Joe)Derek: It's the location of the aneurysm that makes it tricky. Burke: Your body temperature would be lowered cool enough to protect it from any damage and stop the heart. Derek: Which stops blood flow to the brain which reduces the risk of rupture. I'll have 45 minutes to clip the aneurysm. Burke: Before I step in and get the heart started again. Joe: You wanna freeze my body, drain my blood, and stop my heart?Derek: And bring you back. Joe: In under 45 minutes?Derek: Right. Joe: If you go over, is it free?Derek: No.Burke: Dr, Yang, you can go and handle the pre-op labs now. Cristina: Ok. Joe: How much? How much does something like this cost?(George is looking on)Derek: I don't think you should worry about that right now. Joe: Hey, look, you guys say that you can kill me and bring me back, I believe you. You're doctors, but I own a bar. I don't got any insurance so I'm not that concerned about the surgery so mush as what I'm gonna do when I survive it. I need a number. Ten grand? Twenty? Thirty? Derek: It's a couple hundred at least. Burke: At least. (Izzie and Alex are sitting on a gurney in the hallway fixing their charts)Alex: Who's Halloran?Izzie: Patient in 4115. Red hair? Wife knits all the time? He had the colectomy? Alex: Ah, colon dude. That's right. Who's Monterroso? Izzie: 4238. Mom with the really cute kids. She spiked a post-op fever last night. You spent two hours monitoring her.Alex: Hernia chick. That's right. Izzie: You have been treating these people for the last week. How can you not know their names? Alex: Surgery is the only specialty where we don't waste time getting to know the patients. They're slabs of meat, we're butchers. Izzie: They're human beings. You do know what a human is, don't you Evil Spawn?Alex: I'm not evil. Unless evil turns you on. Izzie: Do you ever wake up in the morning, realize nobody likes you, and, I don't know, care?Alex: Oh. I think somebody likes me. (Izzie rolls her eyes)(Cristina enters the stairwell where Burke is)Cristina: Hey. (Burke does not respond) What, you don't speak now you're chief? Burke!Burke: What do you want?Cristina: What?Burke: What do you want? You don't want to go out to dinner. You don't want to meet me in the on-call room, and you sure as hell don't want to talk to me. I could pretend I know, but hey, I don't even have your home phone number. So tell me, what do you want? Cristina: Don't yell at me. (Burke walks away) Wait. Hey, we're having a conversation here. Burke: Well, what do you want?Cristina: I don't know!(He grabs her and kisses her passionately)Burke: Figure it out. (Burke leaves Cristina standing there speechless. The camera pans up to where George had been standing, watching the whole encounter)(Seattle scenes)(Richard's room)Richard: What's the report?George: No report. It's very quiet today, sir. Richard: There's no news, gossip, surgeries I should know about? Now come on, what's the buzz, O'Malley?George: You know, not in the halls, not in the OR, not in the stairwells. Especially nothing happening in the, you know?they're just stairwells. (Alex sits down next to Joe's bed)Alex: They told me you were in a nightgown, but I thought I'd come and see it for myself. Very nice, huh. Joe: Heard O'Malley laid you out cold. Nice eye. (Nurse comes in and leaves a gift)Joe: Whoa, who sent that?Nurse: We all pitched inÕ∂»Î£ª. The whole floor.Joe: Well, please, tell the whole floor a big thank you. Nurse: Yeah, I will. (Leaves)Joe: Alex, you gotta get me out of here, man. Get me transferred to County Hospital, or something. Alex: Oh, you don't want to go to County. Here, they can kill you and bring you back, but at County, they just know how to kill you. No joke. Joe: I can't afford this place, man. I'm gonna lose the bar. (Man walks by)Man: Hey, Joe, how you doing?Joe: Hey, Scooter. (Alex is picking food from Joe's gift basket)Joe: Ok, that's mine. Alex: Well first start things first, we're gonna start by saving your life, man. Joe: The bar is my life. You know that. You've been at last call with me, practically every night since you moved here. I'm gonna have to shut it down or sell it. Alex: You can't do that. Place is an institution. Joe: You know, I've owned the bar across the street for 14 years, and I've never been inside this hospital till now. Alex: Look, I'll pay my tab, right. That's gotta be good for something. How much is it?Joe: Close to a grand. Alex: How about I pay, like, 60? That's good. And I'll pay you back later. (George has been watching from afar)Joe: Hey, champ!(Meredith is getting ready to do an ultrasound on Julie)Julie: What does it take to go after another woman's husband?Meredith: Excuse me?Julie: It happened to me. Jeff moved in with a long-legged miniskirt who answer his phones, three weeks into my pregnancy. By the way, that gel is really cold. Meredith: I'm sorry. I'm sorry about your husband. Julie: Are you sorry about Dr. Montgomery-Shepherd's husband?Meredith: I'm going to be checking a few things today. Julie: I bet she asked to work with you. It's what I would have done. Meredith: I'm gonna go check on your labs. (Cristina enters Joe's room and goes directly to the bathroom and pukes)Joe: Heya, sunshine. Cristina: Deep breath. Joe: Morning sickness must suck. Cristina: Just so we're clear, do not breathe a word of what you heard last night to anyone. Not about me. Not about Meredith. Not about Meredith and Dr. McDreamy? (Burke enters)Joe: Hey, Dr. Burke. Burke: Joe. Cristina: Um, vital signs stable overnight. Today's CT shows no re-bleeding. (Cristina is having a difficult time presenting. Joe notices) The EKG?shows?um, normal sinus rhythm. No ischemia, no dysrhythmias. Burke: Looking good. Page me if there are any changes. (George is standing outside of Peds talking to himself)George: Oh, hi chief. No, not much going on. Other than your interim chief making out with my friend in the stairwell, but hey?sponge duty sucks. (Meredith walks up)Meredith: Talking to yourself now?George: Yes. No! damn it, I'm a bad sponge. A leaky sponge. I'm gonna leak all the wrong secrets. I'm a bad liar, can't even lie about talking to myself. You look nice today. Meredith: Wore my new lip gloss. Cause my ex-boyfriend's wife looks like Isabella freaking Rossellini, and I'm like?me. I'm trying to outdo her when she's the victim here. How crazy is that? George: Not crazy. Smart. You know, gloss, you know, prevents chapped lips and?you?ex-boyfriend?Meredith: I'm an evil mistress. George: Well, still. You look nice. Meredith: Thanks. What are you doing here?George: Well?Meredith: Come on, O'Malley. Out with it. George: Ok. Can you think of any reason, any reason at all, really, why Cristina would be kissing Burke?(Elevator doors dings open, Cristina is inside and Meredith is waiting outside. Lapse to Meredith inside)Meredith: After all this time. All your warnings about me sleeping with my boss, and you're doing the same exact thing?Cristina: It's not the same. Meredith: It's the exact?Cristina: No, it's not. You and McDreamy are in a relationship. Meredith: And you and Burke are in?Cristina: Switzerland. It's very neutral there. And they make very nice watches. Meredith: Have you even bothered to tell Burke about the baby? Are you going to?Cristina: Look, Meredith, can we not go there? Can everyone just accept the fact that there are some things I like to keep to myself? I don't discuss everything to death. Meredith: Well, why even confide in me at all. If you're so intent on not discussing it? Why even tell me?(Meredith is back in the TTTS woman's room)Julie: When I found out about the miniskirt, I called her up and took her to lunch. It was perfectly civil. I said I didn't hold it against her, that these things happened. But, really? I just wanted to put a face on the bitch that got my husband to throw away 15 years of marriage. (Meredith is concentrating on the ultrasound)(Burke enters the office where Bailey is sitting)Burke: Got a second?Bailey: Depends on what you need. Burke: Who the hell is Dr. McDreamy?(Bailey looks to where Derek is talking to Addison and George passes by)Bailey: Me. I'm Dr. McDreamy. I'm tall, handsome. I like to lean against things and ponder the difficulties of dating beautiful women. I'm trying to be a surgeon here! (Burke walks up to where Derek and Addison are talking)Derek: That took a lot of nerve. Addison: Oh come on, she came highly recommended. (Derek pulls her away as Burke draws near)Derek: Right. Addison: So you don't recommend her?Derek: No, I did not say that. Addison: Just not for her medical skills. Derek: Oh, would you shut up?(Meredith walks up)Meredith: Dr. Shepherd. Addison and Derek: Yes?Meredith: Labs confirm what look like abnormalities on the ultrasound. I think you should come and see for yourself. Addison: Fine. Let's go. Derek: Meredith. Meredith. Meredith: Don't. (Burke was looking on from near the surgical board. As Derek notices him, he turns to leave, almost running into George.)(Richard's room)George: Well, no report. You know, same nothing as earlier. I should go. Oh, actually there is something, sir. Richard: Burke and Shepherd marking territory on the playground?George: No, sir. It's about Joe. The bartender. The standstill patient. (Addison looking at Julie's ultrasound)Meredith: See. Bilateral pleural effusion with evidence of subQ edema. Julie: In English, please?Addison: We've detected what looks like beginning heart failure in the twins. Don't be alarmed. Julie: Are my babies gonna be ok?Addison: I'm gonna go ahead and take you into surgery now. We're not gonna wait. (To Meredith) Book the OR. Move. (Joe is being wheeled into surgery. He is giving instructions to Alex)Joe: Tell Pete to wash out the taps every night. Not every other night. And remind him that the delivery truck comes at 6 am. Kegs go in the back. Oh, another thing. There's petty cash on the top shelf in the storage closet. (George leaving Richard's room)Richard: We're operating on our patients. That's it. George: I know, but?Richard: I sympathize. I do. But solving Joe's finances is not my job, it's not your job, and it's sure as hell not the job I assigned you today. George: It just seems wrong to cut him open, sew him up, and just leave him, you know, left with nothing. Richard: If we can save his life, we'll hardly be leaving him with nothing. (Joe's OR. The Or is full of patients and the gallery is full of watchers)Derek: That's as far as I can go for now. Let's start cooling him. (All the doctors start packing Joe with ice packs)(Gallery, Bailey enters)Bailey: (To George) Can't see much from back here, O'Malley. George: I know. I'm trying to find a loophole to help Joe. You know Joe. Bailey: Oh, yeah. I was the only female intern my year. I didn't know anybody and nobody knew me except Joe. He knew me. George: Oh. So, you and Joe?Bailey: All you people ever thing about is how to get into somebody's pants. You're nasty. That's why you got syphilis. (She slaps George) Joe was the first person here to tell me I'd make a good surgeon. Not that he knew anything about it. But it was something when I had nothing. (Alex enters and sits next to Izzie)Alex: Oh, sure. I'm the guy with the heart of stone and you brought snacks. Izzie: It's a working lunch. Alex: Snacks to watch Joe die. Izzie: He's not gonna "die" die. They'll bring him back. Alex: He is going to "die" die. No "pulse" pulse. He's gonna be "dead" dead. Izzie: It's a granola bar, Alex. Not a bag of super-size popcorn and a box of chocolate movie mints. George: That's it. (Everyone looks at George) Dead! (George runs out) Excuse me!(Julie's surgery)Addison: Julie, we're just gonna go in laparoscopically. You're not gonna feel anything and neither are the twins. Ok, let's get going. Ten blade. Begin with a three-millimeter incision. (Joe's OR)Burke: We stop the blood flow?Cristina: To protect the brain. Operate in a bloodless field so the aneurysm won't rupture. Burke: And cool the body?Cristina: To induce hypothermia. Uh, keeps the tissue viable until the blood is restored. Doctor: Body temp is at 60 degrees. Burke: Ok, Joe, time to die. (Burke clamps the blood line, and another doctor turns off the bypass)Doctor: Flatline. Derek: All right. We've got 45 minutes, people. Burke: Start the clock. Doctor: Got it. (Still Joe's OR, the clock is at 17 minutes 52 seconds)Derek: So what's your "Joe" story? Seems like everybody around here has one. Burke: You first. Derek: Ok. I went to Joe's place the night before I started working here. I'd only been in town, you know, a few days. I met this woman. I got drunk and she took advantage of me. Or she got drunk and I took advantage of her. I got drunk and she took? no. We were drunk. Definitely. Somebody took advantage. Either way, I like to look at it as my initiation into Seattle. What about you?Burke: Oh, I don't have one. I just wanted to hear yours. (George is at a desk on the phone)George: So, technically, the paperwork just needs to be submitted by midnight of the day of the surgery to be considered? Oh, good. Well, thank you very much. Thanks. (Julie's surgery)Addison: How you doing there, Grey?Meredith: Good. I'm good. (Gallery of Joe's OR)Alex: You know, I'm very sweet once you get to know me. Izzie: No, you're not. Alex: We could be good friends. Izzie: Alex. Never, ever, ever. Alex: Why not?Izzie: Give me one reason why we could? What about you is even remotely human?Alex: It's going too slowly. Izzie: I hope Joe can pull through this. Alex: He can. He will. He has to. (Inside Joe's OR)Derek: Damn it. I can't get the clamp to hold. Give me the bipolars. I'm gonna go in at a different angle. Burke: Time remaining?Derek: Irrigation, please. (Clock reads 27 minutes, 59 seconds)Cristina: 17 minutes. Burke: Shepherd, I'm gonna need eight minutes to get him back, to warm him up. Derek: Time to make the next 17 minutes count. Right there, go in from there. See it? See, that's why we can't do it right there. (Richard's room)George: He's dead. Technically. Which is science, and this is a huge thing. So I thought some research foundation has to have an interest in that. Richard: So, in essence, you want to donate Joe's body to science?George: At least for the next 17 minutes. Richard: Privately funded grant.George: For educational purposes. We're a teaching hospital. The standstill surgery qualifies. Richard: I didn't peg you for the type to ignore my instructions, O'Malley. George: All due respect, sir. It's worth a shot. It's someone's life. Richard: It's always someone's life, O'Malley. (Pause) You're hovering. You can leave now. George: Ok. (Joe's surgery, the clock reads 37 minutes)Nurse: Eight minutes. Burke: We need to start rewarming, Shepherd. Derek: Take the bipolars, please. Thank you. Burke: Shepherd, we need to start warming him up, now!Derek: Hang on. Burke: Now. I need it now, Shepherd. Derek: I can't seem to get? I just can't get behind the aneurysm. If I could get behind the aneurysm, I could?there it is. Got it. That's it. Burke: Are you sure?Derek: I'm always sure. Good work, everybody. It's all yours there, chief. Burke: Ok people, let's grab Joe before he decides to go into the light. Start warming him up. Clamps are coming off. Turn the pump on. Watch cerebral perfusion pressures. Keep M.A.P. at greater than 60, please. (Richard's room)Richard: I know you're enjoying yourself, Preston. It's a power kick to be the chief. You're never more surrounded. Never more alone. You're everyone's father, everyone's boss, and no one's friend. Choices you make. Clean slices and neat stitches. No emotions, no compromise, no personal life. Burke: But Richard?Burke: I just had brain surgery. I'm surrounded by fruit baskets. The only people who've been in this room come and kiss my ass. I gave you a shot for a reason, Preston. You and I , we're the same. We put the job first. (Burke is in the on-call room when Cristina enters)Cristina: That was the single most amazing surgery I have ever witnessed. You, you killed a man and brought him back to life. You, like, raised the dead. God, how does that feel? Are you rushing? Is it? Burke: Like you wouldn't believe. Cristina: Hey, um, do you still have those reservations? Cause I'm starving. Burke: Cristina, I think there's something we should discuss. Cristina: Yeah. Yeah, there is. Burke: It's pretty clear. Cristina: It is?Burke: We've been fooling ourselves, to think that we can continue like this without consequences. Cristina: Consequences?Burke: We have careers to think about. Reputations. We both put the job first. You are very focused. I respect that. Cristina: Thank you. Burke: You're welcome. Cristina: Oh, you're ending this?Burke: I think it's best to make a clean break. Cristina: Ok. Burke: Before it gets too involved. Before it gets?Cristina: Messy. Right, right. That would be, that would be bad. Burke: It's nothing personal. (Seattle scenes)(Richard's room, George is standing outside the door peeking in)Richard: Get in here, O'Malley. George: Ok. I tried. I really tried. But there's a lot of stuff happening out there. Stuff I can't tell you. Stuff I won't tell you. Crazy stuff. Stuff I'm gonna have nightmares about. But I'm not gonna tell you about any of it. Because it doesn't matter. Not when there's a guy out there who we all know and love who's gonna be bankrupt because he needed a surgery to save his life. And I spent the whole day working on it. Richard: O'Malley?George: Let me finish. Richard: You're wrong, sir. Now you can fire me, or, you know, bring me up on disciplinary action or whatever. I'm telling you, Joe deserves? Richard: Deserves our help. Couldn't help yourself, could you? Whether or not it'd win you any points, even from me. I signed your request. Give it to Patricia, she'll know what to do with it. Looks like Joe may keep his bar after all. George: Thank you, sir. (George starts to leave)Richard: O'Malley!George: Yes?Richard: Yell at me again, and I'll snap you like a twig. George: Yes, sir. (Julie's room)Addison: See? Just a small scar. Julie: And my babies?Addison: Your babies are doing very well. And Dr. Grey will be back to check on you a little bit later. Julie: Actually, I'd prefer it if Dr. Grey were taken off the case. Addison: Why, is there a problem?Julie: Just reminds me of someone I don't like very much. Someone my husband likes a lot. Particularly in lingerie. You understand. Addison: No, no, I don't understand. Julie: Well, she's sleeping with your husband, right?Addison: Ms. Philips, I lack Dr. Grey's class and patience so, let me set the record straight. My husband didn't cheat on me, I cheated on him. So the wronged woman here, Dr. Grey. So, I think you owe here one hell of an apology. (Meredith and Derek sitting on the porch of his trailer)Derek: One night I parked my car, I unlock my front door, go inside my house, and something 's different. Nothing's different, everything's the same, but yet, still, something's different. And I stand there for a while. And then I know. See, there are moments for me, you know, usually when I'm in the OR, when I just know what's gonna happen next. So I go upstairs. As I'm walking down the hall, I trying to prepare myself for what I'm gonna see when I go into my bedroom. I step on a man's jacket that doesn't belong to me. And everything I think I know?just shifts. Because the jacket that doesn't belong to me is a jacket that I recognize. And what I know now is that when I go into my bedroom, I'm not just gonna see that my wife is cheating on me. I'm gonna see that my wife is cheating on me with Mark, who happened to be my best friend. It's just so pedestrian, common and dirty, and cruel. Mostly just cruel. I left, came out here. Meredith: And you met me. Derek: And I met you. Meredith: Well, what was I to you? The girl you screwed to get over being screwed?Derek: You were like coming up for fresh air. It's like I was drowning and you saved me. That's all I know. Meredith: It's not enough. (She gets into her car and leaves)MVO: The say practice makes perfect. Theory is, the more you think like a surgeon, the more you become one. (Burke is in the on-call room alone)(Derek is pacing the porch of his trailer, drinking his beer and looking upset)MVO: The better you get at remaining neutral, clinical. (Derek goes inside the trailer and paces some more. He goes back to the porch, slamming the door)MVO: Cut, suture, close. (Izzie watches Alex take a chair and sit with Joe)MVO: And the harder it becomes to turn it off?Joe: Thought I might see your ugly mug in here tonight. Did you hear the good news?MVO: ?to stop thinking like a surgeon. (George walks by)Alex: O'Malley! (George stops, turns to look at Izzie, who shrugs her shoulders, then heads back towards Alex)Alex: I heard what you did, champ.(Alex hugs George)MVO: And remember what it means to think like a human being. (Cristina enters Joe's Bar and sits down next to Meredith)Cristina: The clinic has a policy. They wouldn't let me confirm my appointment unless I designated an emergency contact person. Someone to be there, just in case, and to help me home, you know, after. Anyway, I put your name down. That's why I told you I'm pregnant. You're my "person." Meredith: I am?Cristina: Yeah, you are. Whatever. Meredith: Whatever. Cristina: He dumped me. (Meredith lays her head on Cristina's shoulder and put her arm around her)Cristina: You realize this constitutes hugging?Meredith: Shut up. I'm your "person."2x02: Enough Is Enough (No More Tears)Original Airdate: 10/2/2005Written by: James D. ParriottDirected by: Peter HortonMVO: I have an aunt who, whenever she poured anything for you, would say, "Say when." (Meredith is lying on the bathroom floor) Meredith: It's not us. It's them. Them and their stupid boy penises. They didn't tell me they had a wife. They gave absolutely no warning that they were going to break up with you. (Cristina opens the shower door, where she is lying completely dressed) Cristina: It's not that Burke broke up with me. It's how he broke up with me. Like it was business. Like it was a business trans? like he's the boss of me! Meredith: He is the boss of you. Cristina: And what's worse is that I care. Meredith: I'm gonna throw up again. (Cristina closes the shower door) MVO: My aunt would say, "Say when," and of course we never did. (Meredith looks like she's going to throw up) Meredith: No. Wait. False alarm. (Cristina opens the shower door) Cristina: Look, the problem is estrogen. Meredith: No, the problem is tequila. Cristina: I used to be all business, and then he goes and gets me pregnant. Meredith: With the stupid boy penis. Cristina: Now, I'm having hormone surges. He ruined me. I'm ruined. He turned me into this fat, stupid, pregnant girl. Who cares! Estrogen! (She slides the shower door shut again) Meredith: Penises. Penises Izzie. (The bathroom door opens and Izzie and George walk in. George to brush his teeth and Izzie with a bottle of water. The shower door is open again) Cristina: Estrogen George. George: Okay. (To Izzie) What did I miss?(Izzie pours some water into a glass that Cristina is holding out) Izzie: I came home to full on vomit drama. Apparently she dumped Derek and her ? (sounds scandalized) she's been sleeping with Burke! George: I knew that. MVO: We don't say "when" because there's something about the possibility of more. (Izzie gives George a look and George turns to face Meredith) George: So you really broke up with Shepherd? (He starts brushing his teeth) Meredith: I feel empty. Izzie: Two hours of vomiting will do that to you. (Both Izzie and George are now brushing their teeth looking at Meredith) MVO: More tequila. More love. More anything. More is better. Meredith: (To herself) No, I feel empty. Cristina: You're lucky. I feel pissed off. (She slides the door shut) (SGH Parking lot) (Meredith slams the door of her car. George, Cristina and Izzie get out slowly after her. Derek is waiting for her.) Meredith: Stop. Derek: What? Meredith: You're stalking me. Stop it. Derek: Did we not communicate last night? Meredith: Yes. Derek: Did you hear what I was saying? Meredith: Your wife screwed your best friend. Derek: And then from that point on she no longer existed to me anymore. Meredith: You had marital amnesia? Derek: No. Come on I bared my soul to you last night. Meredith: It's not enough. Derek: How can that be not enough? Meredith: When you waited 2 months to tell me and I had to find out by her showing up, all leggy and fabulous and telling me herself, you pulled the plug. I'm a sink with an open drain. Anything that you say runs right out. There is no enough. (Meredith goes inside, George and Izzie follow)George: She probably could've picked a better metaphor. Izzie: Give her a break. She's got a hangover. (Burke is inside and spots Derek entering) Burke: Dr. Shepherd. Derek: Dr. Burke. Burke: Ah, we have an organ donor coming in this afternoon from Wilkeson General. We're doing a harvest. Derek: Commendable, but? (The interns look on while waiting for an elevator) Burke: In OR one at four. Derek: I'm in OR one at four. Burke: Your surgery is non-critical? Derek: You can't bump me! Burke: ? you'll be first up tomorrow. As Chief I can. Derek: Interim chief. Bump somebody else! Burke: You're in the OR we need. Derek: Why don't they do the harvest at Wilkeson? Burke: Small facility in the boonies. A duck in a box. We have the location, the airport nearby and the staff. Your surgery is rescheduled. (Elevator opens and the interns get in) Cristina: "Mine's bigger than yours." (Alex enters the elevator before it closes) Alex: Whip it out. I'll measure. Cristina: Shut up, Alex. (Burke and Cristina exchange glances as the elevator doors close) (Bailey and her interns in the ambulance bay) Medic: Male, 55, victim of a head-on collision. GCS is 3. Depressed skull fracture. Multiple internal injuries. ACLS protocol started, but was vein blew so we've been pushing meds down the tube. PEA on arrival. Bailey: How long has he been down? Medic: We've been doing CPR for about 20 minutes. It took fire 20 minutes to get him out of the car. He's pretty much gone. Bailey: Uh, he's not gone until we say he's gone. Keep coding. (Enter the hospital) Bailey: O'Malley, get him into a bay and save him. George: But he's dead. (Another ambulance approaches, Alex, Cristina & Izzie make their way over to it) Bailey: Did you not hear me? He's not dead until we say he's dead. You know what to do so do it. (George stands there) Uh, Grey, you're on this too. Move. (Meredith enters the hospital and leaves George still standing there) Medic 2: We've got three more victims from the other car people coming in. Let's move people! Meredith: Come on(George follows Meredith) George: But he's dead. (In the trauma room, George is preparing to shock the already dead patient.) George: Olivia. (To other doctors) Pulseless V-Tach.Meredith: Line's in. George: Okay, charge to 200. Olivia: 200. George: Clear. (Shocks the body) Meredith: Push 1 of epi. Let's go again. Charge to 300. George: Seriously? Olivia: I think that's what Dr. Bailey wants you to do, George. Dr. O'Malley. Meredith: It's what she wants, Dr. O'Malley. George: Okay then. Let's charge to 300. Olivia: 300. George: Clear. (Ambulance bay) Medic 3: Male, 46, unrestrained driver of the car that jumped lanes. BP 80 over palp. Tachycardic. Last pulse 1:38. Got two liters of LR running wide open. Significant abdominal tenderness. Bailey: Any history? Medic 3: Uh, wife says he's got a bad liver. He's one the, ah transplant list. Bailey: Abdomen's rigid. Okay hand's off. We need to page Burke and Domner. Prep this guy for the O.R. Who wants him? Izzie: I do! Alex: I do. Cristina: I do, I do. Bailey: Uh, too late. Stevens, take it. Izzie: Yes. (Izzie joins them)Bailey: Karev, take the boy. (Another gurney enters and Alex joins them)Bailey: Yang, you take the mom. (Cristina joins the next gurney) Bailey: I want to be looking at their films in 15 minutes! (Doctor nearby hands Bailey a chart) Doctor: We've got one more for you. (Points at the ER)Bailey: What? In there? Oh, ok. (Bailey enters the ER) Bailey: What is it? Doctor: That guy. (Points to Mr. Hubble) Bailey: He was in the accident? Doctor: No. Bowel obstruction. He's not telling us what he ingested but the films look like he's packing. Bailey: Can't people figure out a better way to move drugs? (Bailey enters George's trauma room) Bailey: Grey! (She sees what George is doing) Oh pericardiocentesis. Good. Any response? George: Mm mmm. Bailey: Okay, uh, all right you guys can ? George: Should I call it? Bailey: What would you do next, O'Malley? George: I would call it. Bailey: To save him. George: Oh? uh? I don't know. A pericardial window. Bailey: Excellent. Do it. (She gestures to Meredith) Grey, you're down here. I've got a bowel obstruction for you. Meredith: Fun. George: Well, at least your patient is still alive. (Meredith and Bailey leave, George and Olivia are alone with the patient) Olivia: What next doctor? (George looks at her, not at all pleased) (Richard's room. Derek is trying to check Richard out be he keeps moving) Derek: Ok, stop it. Richard: Okay. Stop. That's it. Derek: That is not it. Richard: Come on, please, stop it. That's it. Derek: That is not it Richard. Hold still. Richard: How can I hold still when you're poking me? Derek: I have to poke you to discharge you. (A woman enters) Adele: What makes you think he wants to be discharged? (Richard looks up shocked) Derek, don't you know that this hospital will crumble unless Richard's here holding up the walls? Richard: Adele, you're supposed to be in the Virgin Islands. Adele: Oh you are in 5 kinds of trouble Mr. Man. (She walks up to him and gives a kiss on the cheek) You had brain surgery and didn't tell me? Richard: It was just a small procedure. Adele: It was brain surgery! Richard: I didn't want to ruin your vacation. Adele: You don't know what a vacation is. How would you know how to ruin it? Richard: Well anyway ? (he stops and gives her a look) How did you find ? (he stops and then gives Derek a big old glare) You called my wife? (Derek looks up from the chart he was writing in startled) Derek: You called mine. (Richard is silent) Look having someone home with you is the only way I'm letting you out of here today. Richard: Fine. (Addison enters) Addison: I thought I saw a fabulous looking woman walk by. Adele: Addison! Yes see (She walks up and they hug) I told Richard, I knew you and Derek would get back together. Addison: Ah, actually, I'm here on a case. Derek: Addison and I are over, Adele. Addison: It's not like we're divorced. Derek: Practically divorced. Adele: You've had counseling? Derek: We had adultery. That was enough. Adele: Hmm. Addison: I'll call you later, ok? (Addison leaves and Adele walks over to Derek) Adele: You should give her a chance, Derek. Derek: It's good to see you. (He gives a kiss on the cheek) Keep him in line. (Derek leaves)(Scott, one of the accident victims is getting ready for x-rays, Alex is nearby)Scott: My mom's ok, right? Alex: Yeah, yeah, I think so. Scott: They'd been fighting at breakfast. Dad ? it's ugly when it gets like that. He ran three stop lights before we even got on the freeway. (Lea, another of the accident victims is getting checked out by Cristina) Lea: My husband Bob's a, a really good driver. (Scene switches back and forth between Lea and Scott) Scott: Some guy in a pick up cuts us off. Lea: Safe. I uh think he saw something in the middle of the road and ? Scott: And my Dad just lost it. Lea: ? and swerved to avoid it. Scott: He started chasing the guy ? Lea: The crash just, just came out of nowhere. Scott: ? blasting through traffic ? Lea: We'd been having a really nice morning. One minute everything's fine and the next ? Scott: ? screaming at him. Lea: I see a guy's face before we hit. Scott: The next thing I know, we're upside down on the other side of the freeway. Lea: Do the surgeon's know that Bob has a bad liver? Cristina: They know. Lea: How's Scotty? Cristina: Your son's in the next room getting x-rayed. Scott: My dad, he?Alex: He's in surgery. It's pretty serious. Scott: Yeah? Well. I guess the son of bitch got what he deserved. (Alex stares at him) (Mr. Siebert's OR) Dr. Domner: What makes people think they don't need seatbelts? Burke: My end is done. Dr. Domner: Well, the bowel's a mess, but it's repairable. It's a lot of work, I don't see the point with this liver. Burke: What do you see, Dr. Stevens? Izzie: A deep laceration, bleeding. Burke: What else? Izzie: It's hard and pale. Cirrhotic. They said he's on the transplant list. Burke: Does he have family here, Stevens? Izzie: A wife and son. (Lea and Cristina's room) Cristina: Okay, I'm just gonna roll you over. Gently. (Rolls her and notices a large bruise on her back) Cristina: Oh. This looks pretty bad. How did you get this? Lea: Well, we hit so hard ? Cristina: I don't think this is from the collision. It looks a couple of weeks old. (Lea doesn't answer) (Bailey enters George's room) Bailey: Where are you? George: I can see his heart. His heart that's not beating. Bailey: Okay, ah open the pericardium and aspirate. If the heart is still not beating close and call it. (George looks upset) What? You think we're defiling this man's body? George: Well, well we're certainly doing more than? Bailey: ? than what? (George looks resigned) If they're dead or dying when they come through those doors you hump and hump hard. Why? George: For the experience. Bailey: Uh, no what else? There's something more. (George doesn't have an answer) You think on that. It'll come to you. (Bailey leaves the room) (Meredith wheels Mr. Hubble to the elevator) Meredith: You know, Mr. Hubble, you might make things easier on yourself if you just tell us what you've ingested. We'll know anyway, once we see your films. Mr. Hubble: You have the most beautiful features. They're delicate. Almost porcelain. Meredith: Mr. Hubble, whatever you've ingested could kill you. Are you sure you don't want to tell me what's got you blocked up inside? Mr. Hubble: It ah might offend you. Meredith: Is it drugs? Mr. Hubble: It's not drugs. Meredith: Mr. Hubble?Mr. Hubble: I promise. It's not drugs. (Elevator opens) Meredith: Okay. Well, Good. I'm glad it's not drugs. (Meredith is receiving Mr. Hubble's films) Radiologist: Its drugs. Looks like at least 10 balloons in his bowel. (Meredith holds up the film in the light to see for herself) My guess, cocaine. (Bailey is looking at x-ray films with Alex and Cristina) Alex: Scott Seibert,18. No fractures or internal bleeding. Got pretty lucky. Bailey: Recommendation? Alex: Keep overnight for observation. (Cristina puts up her x-ray film and switches on the light screen) Bailey: Damn! Cristina: Lea Seibert, 43. Multiple healed fractures on her clavicle and humerus. Third and fourth rib. Bailey: She's either a bull rider or she's abused. Alex: Kid said the accident was road rage. His old man got cut off in traffic, went ballistic. Cristina: Oh, that's not the story I got. (She puts up another x-ray) She has a large yellowing bruise over her right kidney. Tender to palpitation. Said she got it from a fall last week (Bailey scoffs). She's bleeding. Bailey: Perinephric hematoma. What do you do? Cristina: It should take care of itself. We'll keep an eye on it. She needs ah bed rest and a shrink. (Meredith walks in with her films of Mr. Hubble) Meredith: It's drugs. Bailey: Stupid. (she takes the x-ray film and puts it up on all already lit screen) Stupid, stupid. One burst and he's dead in 5 minutes. Okay what do we do? Meredith: Run his bowel. Bailey: And what does that mean? Yang? Cristina: Ah running the bowel entails removing all 36 feet of the intestine from the body cavity, hand searching for the balloons and then cutting them out. Bailey: Grey, book an O.R. Yang, Karev you're in. I need all the hands I can get. (Bailey, Meredith and Cristina start to leave but Alex continues to stare at the x-ray. He walks up closer to it) Alex: Are you sure they're balloons? (They stop at the door and Bailey walks back) Bailey: You have reason to believe they're not balloons? (Alex points to the screen as Meredith and Cristina walk back in as well) Alex: This one here's has got a face. (Bailey dims the light on screen a bit. The balloons take on more face like structures) Meredith: So does that one. (They all look dumfounded) Cristina: They all do. Bailey: I'll be damned. They're Judys. Cristina: Judys? Bailey: Huh. He swallowed the heads of 10 Judy dolls. (The camera closes up on a doll face on the x-ray) Cristina: Ew. (Seattle Scenes) (Nurse's station) (Cristina is sitting on a chair at the nurse's station. Alex is standing looking over a chart at the desk while Meredith is putting a file away) Cristina: My mother used to buy me Judy dolls. Manhattan Judy, Surfer Judy, Disco Judy. Meredith: I always wanted one. Cristina: I dissected them. Cut of their arms, shaved their heads. (Mr. Hubble is getting ready for his operation) Alex: Sounds like there's a sick and twisted story behind this. Cristina: No they're sexist, distorted devil toys (Bailey comes around the corner which Alex notices) that create unrealistic image expectations (Alex waves bye to Cristina & leaves) carrying to the porn driven minds of men. Bailey: You swallow a bitter pill this morning, Yang? (Cristina turns around and then sits up and starts typing on the laptop in front of her) They're dolls. Grey, call for a psych consult. Then see if he has family. Meredith: Do I still book the OR? Bailey: Blocked bowels become necrotic bowels. Check with Dr. Burke. See if we can bump someone. Those Judys' gotta come out today. (Mr. Siebert's OR) Nurse: Hanging another B neg. Dr. Domner: He's going through a lot of blood. Nurse: Noted. Burke: What's the word from UNOS? Izzie: He's on the list, but they don't have a liver for him. Dr. Domner: The list won't help him now. We can work all day but this liver won't stop bleeding. And it won't support his recovery from surgery. Izzie: What about the donor from Wilkeson that's coming in? Burke: That liver has already been committed. Mr. Seibert's only hope is a family donor. Dr. Domner: Maybe we should call it? No use in tying up an OR if we're just postponing the inevitable. Burke: How much work do you have here to complete, Dr. Domner? Dr. Domner: 5, maybe 6 hours. Burke: Then that's how much time we have to find him a new liver. Dr. Domner: You're the chief. (George, still trying to revive his patient) George: Any family members waiting? Olivia: Still trying to reach them. George: Good. I mean, not good that we haven't reached them. Good I don't have to ah ? Olivia: It's always hard. George: Yeah. Olivia: I'm sorry about Alex. (George squeezes the gun harder) George: That's fine. It's good you know. No need to talk about it. Olivia: You do understand that I had sex with him before you, not during? (George squeezes the gun really hard) Because when you and I were having sex ? George: I understand. Olivia: I just wanted to clear the air. George: Oh. It's clear. (Again squeezes the stitch gun really hard) Perfectly clear. Ok.Olivia: Ok. George: Ok. Olivia: And about the syphilis ? George: We really don't have to talk about this. Olivia: Which is I mean, I didn't know I had it. I should've, I'm a nurse. I mean there was the sore and I was all itchy. (George squeezes the gun hard again) George: Ok! (He backs away and almost knocks the tray next to him over) You know I uh, uh got it. You know things happen. (He moves to the door far away from Olivia) Olivia: They, they really do. Things you wish you could change. George: Yeah. Oh, it's the Chief. I gotta take this. Olivia: Sure. George?(George leaves eager to get away) Olivia: You have to call it. George: Call it? Olivia: Him. George: Oh, uh (he grabs his pager to check the time) um, time of death 1.48. (He walks out) (Scott and Alex enter an elevator. Scott is punching his gurney) Alex: I got it. (The other doctor leaves and the elevator doors close) Alex: This guy came in this morning with 10 Judy doll heads in his abdomen. Is that some kinda sick or what? I mean, when you think about it, those things can't be that easy to swallow. They've still got their hair on them. That's some bad spaghetti. Dude's crapping toys. (Scott almost smiles but is too upset. Alex sighs) Alex: You know, when you're little you can hide. Ignore the shouting, the screaming, you pretend like you're someplace else. Then when you get older,?bigger,?you feel like you should be doing something. Something to stop it. You know, to protect her. (Scott still hits the side of the bed) And when you can't, you don't know who to be angrier at, Your old man or yourself. Usually it's yourself. Scott: Did she tell you? Alex: She didn't have to. It's all over her films. He's not beating you, is he? Scott: No, just her. So what do you do? About the anger? (Elevator doors open) Alex: Me? I think about the guy who eats doll heads. He's got problems. (As they are leaving the elevator, Izzie runs up) Izzie: Hey, I've been looking for you guys. Scott: It's my father. (Burke is in Lea's room, talking to her about Bob) Lea: Bob liked his beers. His liver started to fail a couple of years ago. He quit drinking and we put him on the transplant list, but his blood type. Burke: B-negative. Lea: There just aren't that many available. They suggested a family member. Burke: Any luck? Lea: My son. They said Scotty is a good match. He's 18? Cristina: Family members shouldn't do it out of obligation. It's a risky operation. (Burke looks at Cristina) Lea: Scotty's had counseling. You know, they just don't let you do it. (Cristina nods) He hasn't made his mind up yet, you know. (Cristina notices Burke staring at her) We actually have a date set for surgery. I just (She cries a little) I just don't?I don't want to pressure him. Cristina: Well, then you shouldn't. Lea: Oh, god?God, I don't want to lose Bob. Burke: We'll give your son as much time as we can to make a decision. Yeah? Lea: Thank ? (she continues to cry) (Everyone leaves, Burke stops Cristina in the hallway) Burke: Would you care to explain? Cristina: Seibert is a wife beater. Her films show years of abuse. Burke: I didn't know that but still ? Cristina: Multiple fractures. She has a kidney bleed from a beating she took last week. Plus, it was?it was his road rage that caused the accident. The guy in the other car died! Burke: And that means what? No heroic measures? We leave him on the table? Cristina: Well if it were up to me ? Burke: Think like a surgeon Dr. Yang! We have a dying patient and a liver that could save him. Cristina: Well this more complicated than that. Burke: No. For social workers, yes! For the family. Not for you. It isn't up to you! (Burke starts to leave)Cristina: Yeah, you've made that perfectly clear. (He hears this and walks back quickly) Burke: Well, I'm glad we have an understanding. Cristina: I'm sure you are. (She walks off in the other direction. Burke walks off as well) (Burke is walking with Patricia) Burke: The donor from Wilkeson? Patricia: Should be here at 3. Harvest team's on their way in. Burke: I also need to touch base with the transplant centre about Seibert getting his son's liver. (Meredith walks up) Meredith: Dr. Burke? (They stop walking) Dr. Bailey needs an OR and they're all booked. Burke: For? Meredith: An emergent bowel obstruction. (She hands him Mr. Hubble's x-ray) Burke: Drugs? Meredith: 10 Judy doll heads. Burke: Seriously? Meredith: Yes. (Patricia looks at the film as well) Patricia: I can see their little faces. (She puts on a voice) Help. Let me out. (Burke pulls down the x-ray film quickly) Burke: Bump Warner's hernia in 1. But don't tell him what we're removing. (He hands Meredith the x-ray film back) Meredith: Thank you. (He and Patricia continue walking and Meredith walks off in the other direction) (Burke enters Richard's office to find Adele there) Adele: If he can't be here obsessing, he wants stuff to obsess with at home. (Patricia walks in) I'll be done and out of your way in a moment. (Patricia hands Burke a piece of paper) Patricia: Intern time cards. Sign. (She waves to Adele, who waves back and leaves the office) Adele: It's always something isn't it? Some emergency surgery, some annoying administrative problem. (Burke looks at her as he signs the time cards on the round table in the room) Being chief is a lot like being an intern. The work never stops. (Burke sits down in Richard's chair) Adele: You know when I found out Richard had a tumor you know what I felt? Relieved. (Burke is looking at the computer screen not really listening) I was hoping he'd finally be forced to retire. (He looks up at Adele at this piece of news, intrigued) Ah. That has your attention doesn't it? How we both would like that to happen. (She grabs her bag) I could finally book a vacation for two. (she chuckles) You know you're perfect for this job, Preston. Unattached, obsessive. This hospital, this job, it's enough for you isn't it? (Adele) (Scott's room) Scott: It has to be today? Izzie: Thanks. (To Scott) He won't make it off the table with his own liver. He's bleeding a lot. Scott: When you get counseling they tell you not to force it. The decision you know. One day, one moment you just know the right thing to do. It should be easy, right? He's my father. Alex: Well it's a tough operation. It'll be a big change in your life. Izzie: The upside is that the liver is the only organ that regenerates itself. (Alex looks annoyed at this) I mean they'll only take half of yours and it'll be back to normal size in 2 months. You probably won't be running any marathons any time soon but ? (Alex grabs Izzie's arm and interrupts) Alex: Dr. Stevens, can I see you outside for a moment? (He pulls Izzie outside into the hallway) Izzie: What is your problem? Alex: (angry) You're doing a sales pitch. The recipient is your patient. You shouldn't even be talking to the donor. Izzie (defensive): The recipient is his father who he's going to lose if he doesn't make a decision. Alex (angry): And he understands that alright? Believe me he understands that. You have no idea what is going on in that kid's head! None! (He walks back in to the room leaving Izzie looking perplexed) (George is wheeling Richard out) Richard (to George): Call 3 times a day. Adele: Do not call 3 times a day. Richard: Look and if my wife does not put you through ? Adele: I won't put you through. Richard: Keep calling until she does. George: Yes sir. (Adele gives George a look. He shakes his head no at her but Richard doesn't see) (Bailey, Meredith and Raj are dicussing Mr. Hubble) Raj: He's not talking. It could be pica. Doubtful for a man his age. Maybe an Oedipal complex or an idolization of the doll as his partners. (Bailey gives him a weird look) Or it could be that he simply enjoys it. Bailey: Now I've seen a lot of strange things in strange places but how does he enjoy this? (Meredith walks back up to them) Raj: He'd enjoy it when they came out. Bailey: I didn't need to hear that. (Addison walks by) Addison: Dr. Grey, may I speak with you for a moment? (Meredith looks at Bailey who moves to sign the chart Raj is holding out) Bailey: Don't look at me for help. (Meredith walks up to Addison and they walk down the hallway together) Addison: I assumed he told you why he left me. (Meredith looks annoyed at this and stops walking in front of Addison) Meredith: Dr. Shepherd with all do respect, this has nothing to do with me. (Meredith walks off but Addison follows her) Addison: Really? So you didn't take him back. Good girl. Meredith: And in the future I'd appreciate it if we could keep our relationship strictly professional. (Addison stops walking and Meredith continues to walk away. Addison calls out to her and Meredith turns around) Addison: Meredith. ? Sometimes people do desperate things to get someone's attention. (Meredith makes a face and walks away) Addison (calls out): There are two sides to every story! (Cut to Cristina, Izzie and George walking in the outdoor caf? with food trays) Cristina: The father is an alcoholic wife beater. I mean there shouldn't even be a question. Izzie: But if you could save somebody and you didn't, wouldn't you feel like you were committing murder? Cristina: Like the guy did when crashed into George's DOA. He's the killer not the son. (George stops when he sees and empty table with 10 headless Judy dolls sitting all arranged in a circle) George: Oh! That is sick! Izzie: Who would do that? (They look to the table where Alex is sitting, smiling) Cristina: Oh. (she picks up a Judy) Look! See Judy fly. (She throws it at him and he ducks to the side so doesn't hit him) (Olivia walks by with her own tray as they all sit down at the table with the Judys) Olivia: Hey, George. George: Hey. (The interns look at George) George: What? Meredith: George. She was trying to make up with you. You should go eat with her. (George picks up a Judy and starts playing with it) George: No. No, I shouldn't. Izzie: She's cute and she likes you. You shouldn't let a little syph get in the way. George: It's not the syph. Cristina: It's so the syph. George: It's not the syph! Izzie: Then what is it? (George doesn't answer and looks down) Oh. Meredith: What? (George shrugs) What is it? Out with it. Izzie: There's this other girl. George: Izzie! Cristina: Other girl? You have another girl?! Izzie: He hasn't told her yet that he likes her. George: Izzie! We are not in high school. Izzie: George has a little crush. George: I do not have a crush. (Cristina laughs while Meredith looks at George contemplating who is still playing with the Judy doll) George: It is a thing. A thing that is very personal. One day I would like to build on this thing with this other girl. Woman. She's all woman. (Meredith snatches the Judy doll away from George and slams it onto the table) Meredith: What are you doing? George (apologetic) : I was playing with ? Meredith (interrupts): No George, with Olivia. (She picks up the doll and starts pointing at George with it) What are you doing with Olivia? George: Oh. Nothing. Meredith: You're letting her think you're emotionally available. You're letting her think she has a chance. (Loudly) And there is nothing worse in the world than thinking you have a chance when you really don't! (She throws down the Judy doll) Cristina: Meredith is right. Tell her there's someone else. Tell her why George. I mean, (she yells) I mean at least give her the chance to have some feelings about for god's sake! George (shocked): Why are you yelling at me? Cristina (loud): Because of the estrogen George! Because of all the estrogen! (She takes a bite of her salad angrily. Meredith looks at George also angry. George looks taken aback by the whole situation. Izzie just tries to smile it off) Izzie: So new subject. (Burke and Derek at the OR board) Derek: It's a mess. Burke: No it isn't. Derek: I think I know a mess when I see a mess. You've got the harvest tying up OR 1. Seibert tying up OR 2. Bowel obstruction in OR 3. Burke: It's simply a bit crowded. Derek: Well, your "crowded" is my "seriously overbooked." And in my book seriously overbooked is a mess. (A scrubs nurse walks up to Burke and Derek) Nurse: They need to know if there's any word on the Seibert liver. Burke: How much time do they have left? Nurse: Couple of hours. Burke: Tell them I'll be in to see them. (The scrubs nurse walks off. Dr. Warner and his staff walk down the hallway up to Burke) Dr. Warner: You bumped me for a bowel obstruction? Derek: Ooh, uneasy lies the head that wears the chief's cap. (Derek walks off) (Meredith and Mr. Hubble are headed to his surgery) Meredith: Was it an act of desperation? Mr. Hubble: Not at all. Meredith: Something to attract attention? Mr. Hubble: Of course not. Meredith: I'm just trying to understand here, Mr. Hubble. Why 10 doll heads? Mr. Hubble: Well because 11 would've been too much. (Mr. Hubble's surgery. All of the interns are there helping) Izzie: I think it's something to do with his mother. Maybe she always wanted a girl and gave him Judy dolls for his birthday presents. George: Ah, ah I've got another one. (He pops up a Judy doll head in the intestine) Meredith: Uh! Bailey: Doyen clamps to Yang. Grey, push the head up to the incision. (Meredith starts squeezing the doll head up through the intestine) Alex: Maybe his mother looked like Judy and he's into voodoo. Instead of sticking pins in... Heh. (They pop a small black doll head with an afro out of the intestine) Bailey: Yep. Ah. (She holds up the doll head with a clamp) Black Judy. What they gave her long hair back when she had the afro. She came with 'go go' boots and a leather jacket. (She puts the doll head into a large silver basin) Shame it's a real collector's item. Alex: Collectable dolls with a twist. Cristina: Seriously, you can identify these dolls by their heads? Bailey: You got a problem with that Yang? I like Judy dolls. I own Judy dolls. The only problem I have with Judy dolls that are in the bowel of this man. (Burke walks into the O.R) Burke: Bailey, I need an intern in the ER to meet the harvest donor. Bailey (she looks at George): O'Malley. Cristina (to George): See ya, boo-boo. (George leaves the operating table) Burke: You good here? Bailey: Couple more heads to go. Burke: Then Karev, Yang, Stevens scrub out. I need to get an answer from Seibert's son. (Cristina and Burke share a look. He leaves the O.R and they all start scrubbing out. Bailey removes another Judy doll head) Bailey: Ah yes. Mod Judy. Came with a yellow vesper. You know what's strange? Meredith: We haven't had enough strange? Bailey: She looks a little like you. (Meredith doesn't respond to that. Bailey dumps the doll head into the silver basin) (Cut to Olivia opening the doors of a patient room. George is a few feet behind her with a chart and is being followed by a nurse and 2 doctors wheeling a man on a hospital bed) Nurse: This is the donor from Wilkeson General. George: Just put her in here (he gestures to where Olivia is) until the ah harvest team comes done. Thanks. (They wheel her into the room) George: Well this, this one's heart is still beating. (They all leave except for George and Olivia. Olivia shuts one of the doors to the room. She and George share a look) George: I think Bailey would want me to ah ? (George starts checking the patient and Olivia walks to the other side of the bed and puts on the monitor) Olivia: We finally reached the family members of the dead motorist. Live in Portland. Should be here in a few hours. Want me to page you when they get here? George: Yeah. Do they know? (She walks behind George) Olivia: Only that we were still working on him. (She clicks on a switch) I think it's always better to hear bad news firsthand. (George gets a look on his face) I know I'd like to talk to the doctor who called it. (She speaks quietly) Get some answers. (Normal voice) So I could get on with my life. George (tries to ignore this): Ah. Olivia: George. (He presses down on the patient's sternum and the patient reflex's her whole body upwards off the bed) George: Did you? Did you see that? (He does it again) George: She's decerebrate. Her brain's, her brain's stem is still alive. (The transplant team has come to the room and opens the wide door/wall Olivia closed. Dr. Orsen, the doc in charge with several other doc's come in) Dr. Orsen: Okay, we'll take it from here. George: But, would you look at this? (He pushes down on the patient again who reflex's up again) Dr. Orsen: She's decerebrate. (to the other doctors) Okay. George: Yeah but she can't really be declared brain dead. (They start wheeling the patient out) Dr. Orsen: It's a small reaction. They probably just missed it. The cortex is dead. The brain stem will follow. (The team start wheeling the patient down a hallway) Death is imminent we just have to wait it out. (George looks shocked and confused by this as Dr. Orsen follows the team) George: Yeah, but don't you ? Dr. Orsen (interrupt): She'll be dead by the time we get to the O.R doctor. (The team walk off) George (to himself): But she's alive now. (Alex enters Scott's room with a wheelchair) Alex: It smells like a hospital in here. (Bob's OR) Dr. Domner: What are we doing with this guy Preston? Is this just an exercise? I don't need the practice. Burke: Transplant committee gave us the green light. Trying to get an answer from the son. Dr. Domner: Well this guy goes through his liver like there's no tomorrow. And I mean that literally. Burke: How much work do you have left now? Dr. Domner: Maybe an hour and a half. But without a liver I don't think this guy is going to last that long. (Burke just looks at Mr. Seibert) (Cut to Mrs. Seibert lying on her side in her patient room. Cristina checking her back) Lea: I need to speak to Scotty. I can talk to him. I need to talk to him. (Cristina is done and Mrs. Seibert rolls on to her back) Cristina (avoids eye contact): I think they want him to make the decision on his own. Lea: You think I'm sick for wanting me to save my husband. Don't you? Cristina: I think ? you're feeling very emotional and when we're feeling emotional sometimes it's, sometimes it's hard to keep a level head and consider all the facts. ?. Your husband killed a man on the highway today. He almost killed you and your son. Those are the facts. Lea: Have you ever been in love Doctor? (Cristina looks at her) Have you? Cristina: Love has its limits. (Cristina walks out while Mrs. Seibert shakes her head) (Cut to Derek walking down a hall eating a snack. George comes racing after him) George: Dr. Shepherd! (Derek stops and turns to meet him) Derek (chewing): Dr. O'Malley. George: I was just in the ICU with harvest donor and ah Dr. Bailey, she has us do exams and procedures on patients even if they're ? Derek (interrupts): Whatch you find? George: Ah, she's decerebrate. The donor, her brainstem is still alive. (Cut to Derek and George walking quickly down the O.R hallway. They come up to the transplant team with the donor) Derek: Excuse me, Derek Shepherd. Head of Neurosurgery. Do you mind if I take a look? (He starts checking the patient) Dr. Orsen (looks like he can't believe this is happening): Ah, okay, yeah she's ah still fostering. We have every intention of waiting until she's dead. She's in an irreversible coma. (Derek pushes on the patient's sternum who reflex's up again) Dr. Orsen: Hines, the neuro at Wilkeson ran the protocol. Derek: They missed decerebration. What else did they miss? (He grabs the donor's chart and flips through it) She has a tumor, ah on her brain stem right? I don't see the M.R.I. Did you do an EEG to confirm brain dead? (Dr. Orsen shrugs his shoulder annoyed that this is even happening) Dr. Orsen: Yeah, according to Hines. Derek: I don't know a Dr. Hines. (Meredith standing at the nurse's station looks up and watches the situation from afar) Dr. Orsen: We have 6 patients in 3 states waiting for this woman's organs. Derek: Yeah and I'm sure they'll all be happy to know that the organs that they'll be receiving are from somebody that's actually brain dead. (Burke walks out of the Seibert's O.R and notices the heated battle between the 2 doctors and makes his way over) Dr. Orsen: No one's going to touch her while she's alive. For you to imply otherwise ? Burke (interrupts): Is there a problem here? Dr. Orsen? Dr. Shepherd? Derek: Yeah we have a donor who's still decerebrate. (Cristina rounds the corner and also notices the situation and watches) Derek: I want to do an EEG and a M.R.I. Dr. Orsen: An expensive waste of time. (Burke flips through the donor's chart) Derek: I insist on it. (Burke gives Shepherd a weird look) Burke: You insist on it? Derek: I do. (Cristina and Meredith make eye contact and Meredith raises her eyebrows to say another pissing contest) Burke: If my head of neurosurgery says he needs an EEG and an M.R.I, (he hands the chart over to Derek) then he needs an EEG and an M.R.I. Dr. Orsen: You realize we have 6 patients waiting? Burke: That is not my call Dr. Orsen. Who gets the organs is up to UNOS. Who donates the organs is up to the families. Hell I've got in the O.R that's waiting for a liver that may not deserved to be saved and again that's not my call. But you want to know what my call is? Everything else. (He turns to Derek) The patient is yours Dr. Shepherd. Derek: Thank you Dr. Burke. (Dr. Orsen shakes his head and storms off. Most of the transplant team leaves as well. Shepherd and some other doctors start wheeling the patient down the hall) Derek: Dr. O'Malley do you want to assist with this M.R.I? (George follows Dr. Shepherd. Burke is left standing there and notices Cristina watching. The camera switches to Shepherd who notices Meredith watching from the nurse's station) Derek (To a doctor): Carry this for me. First we'll do an EEG. George, you with me? (Walkway outside of SGH) (Izzie rushes outside looking for somebody and notices them. Alex is taking Scott for a walk) Scott: What if he goes back to hitting her? Alex: You can't make that call. Whatever you do you can't make the decision on anger. (Izzie runs down the pathway behind them) Izzie (calls out): Alex! Scott: So what do you with it? What did you with yours? Izzie (calls out again louder): Alex! (Alex pushing the wheelchair and turns around as Izzie runs up to them and stops a few feet away) Izzie: Hey. You shouldn't be out here. Dr. Burke needs a ? Alex (interrupts): Can you just back off? Please? (Izzie sighs and walks to the side. Alex squats down next to Scott) Alex: My anger had a life of its own. I bulked up, became a wrestler and the next time he laid a hand on my mother I beat the living crap out of him. When he got out of the hospital he took off. Just took off and never came back. He was a cold mean tempered bastard, but he was still my old man you know? (Scott nods) But now, now I can't stop wishing that I never laid a hand on him. Wish somehow that I could've worked it through. (They walk back towards Izzie)Alex: What is it? Izzie: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt you, I ? Alex (interrupts): What? What does Burke want? Izzie: I'm sorry Scott. He needs a decision now. (Lea's room) Lea (to Dr. Burke): When would it happen? Burke (walks over to the bed): We would take Scott to pre-op immediately. The transplant surgeon is on call and waiting. There isn't much time. Lea: Scotty. Scotty. Scott: Yeah, okay. (Mrs. Seibert tilts her head back in relief) I want to do it. Lea (whispers): Oh thank you. Burke (heads to the door): Let's get him to pre-op. I'll call the sur ? Scott (interrupts, staring at his mother): I have a couple of conditions. Scott: You're gonna tell the cops the truth about what happened in this accident mom. And as soon as we get back home you and I are moving out. Enough is enough. Burke walks out of the room. Cristina, Izzie and Alex follow slowly one by one) (Nurse's station)Burke: 18 year old, liver donor, no malignancy or transmittable diseases, ETA about 10 minutes. Cristina: You know she's just gonna go back to him? Burke: Well I don't know that. It's not my ? Cristina (interrupts, softly): It's not our call. Burke: Well, Cristina ?Uh ? I was wondering uh, I mean ah I was hoping that we can ah ? I know we didn't ? Cristina (interrupts softly): You're asking me ? Burke: Are you okay? Cristina: Can I scrub in? (He takes a breath and nods slightly) Cristina: Then yes Dr. Burke, I'm okay. (She walks off. Burke walks away from the nurse's station as well) Burke: Karev, let's get him to pre-op. (Cut to George and Derek in the MRI viewing room as the donor patient lies in the MRI machine. They're looking at images of her brain) Derek (points at the screen): You see the tumor on her brain stem right here? George: It looks pretty bad. Derek: You ever had a crappy day O'Malley? I mean really, really crappy? George: I have had many crappy days. Derek: This one just got better. (To Dr. Orsen in the doorway) You might as well go home gentleman. I will be the only one of us performing surgery here today. My friend here has a viable brain. Dr. Orsen (nods, difficulty): Okay. (He walks off) Doctor: That's it then. Doctor: Yep. (The rest of the transplant team head off) George: Do you really think she'll be okay? Derek: With the tumor out she's got a good shot of recovery. (He smiles at George and gets up and walks to the doorway) Derek: Look out for her. (George looks up and realizes he's talking about Meredith) George: Meredith? Derek: Yeah. (Derek walks away) (George runs into Olivia in the hallway) Olivia: Oh, um ? (She gestures to a waiting through a window where a family sits waiting) George: Is it the family of the dead guy? Olivia (nods): Yeah. George: Look, maybe I'm not over the Alex thing or the syph thing, yet. That, that's not really the problem. ? ?. (Olivia looks slightly pained) There's a girl who I uh, and it doesn't matter there's this other guy and frankly I wouldn't care if she gave me the Ebola virus. (Olivia smiles briefly) I like you Olivia, I but ? I just don't like you enough. Olivia (nods forcing a smile): I gave it a shot, right? (George slightly huffs. In a more serious tone) And you were honest. That's good. (George kisses her forehead)Olivia: You know what you're going to tell them? (George stops and walks slightly back towards Olivia. He looks at the family again) George: Why do we hump on every dead or dying patient that comes through those doors? Olivia: Experience? George: So we can tell their family that we did everything we could. (He walks into the waiting room as Olivia watches on through the window) George: Are you Ted's family? (Cut to Derek standing in an empty elevator entering something into his mobile phone. Addison walks into the elevator dressed to go home) Derek: Just when the day was improving. Addison: You told Meredith what happened? (He puts the phone away and walks over to the other side to push an elevator button) Derek (he gives her a weird look): I did. What did you tell her? (The doors to the elevator shut) Addison: That sometimes people do desperate things to attract attention. Derek (disbelieving): What? Wow. That's your side of this? That I didn't pay you enough attention. Is that you were thinking when you got naked with my best friend? (Addison reaches over and hits an elevator button as well) Addison: No, by that point I wasn't thinking at all Derek. By that point I was just scratching an itch. We got successful you and me. We got busy and we got lazy. We didn't even bother to fight any more Derek. And Mark was there and I missed you. And now I'm sorry. (Derek pushes his floor button again) I'm more sorry than you can possibly imagine. But at least I'm talking to you about it. (The doors open and Derek heads out) Addison (imploringly): Derek. Derek: I'm a sink with an open drain honey. (He leaves Addison looking confused) (Mr. Hubble, post surgery) Mr. Hubble: Did you get them all? Meredith: Yes. It wasn't easy. Or very pleasant. How do you feel? Mr. Hubble: Empty. I feel empty now. Meredith: Yeah. I've been feeling a little bit of that myself lately. Mr. Hubble: I can see that. Meredith: Mr. Hubble, why does eating doll heads fill you up? What's the satisfaction? Mr. Hubble: Do you really want to know? Meredith: Would it be too much information? Mr. Hubble (half shrugs): Might. Meredith: Maybe I'm better left in the dark. (She leaves) MVO: There's something to be said about a glass half full. (Cut to Burke walking down a hallway, past Scott's post-op room where Alex sits at his bedside. Izzie is there talking to a nurse) MVO: About knowing when to say when. (Burke is in the hallway in front of the OR. board. Dr. Domner walks by and gives Burke a pat on the arm. Burke smiles and lets out a breath of air) MVO: I think it's a floating line. A barometer of need and desire. (Burke watches as a scrubs nurse wipes of some surgeries written on the OR board and starts writing on new ones) MVO: It's entirely up to the individual. (Burke is walking up to the doorway of Mrs. Seibert's room. Mrs. Seibert who is actually looking more bruised and battered than before sits up. The camera shows 2 police officers in there with notepads) MVO: And depends on what's being poured. (Burke walks past one of the OR's. Bailey holding a plastic bag filled with 10 Judy doll heads. She shakes her head in displeasure of it all and throws it in the waste bin) (Burke is smiling walking down a hall. He stops when sees Cristina a few feet away. She stops walking as she's about to enter a room. They make eye contact and stare at each other for a bit.)MVO: Sometimes all we want is a taste. (Cristina breaks and walks into the room. Burke turns and continues walking) MVO: Other times, there's no such thing as enough. The glass is bottomless. (Derek is operating on the donor transplant patient in an OR. George stands very close next to him observing. In the gallery, Dr. Burke is standing watching the procedure. He moves and leaves the room. As he moves he reveals Meredith standing there watching as well) MVO: And all we want is more. (Derek operating and then back to Meredith watching him)2x03: Make Me Lose ControlOriginal Airdate: 10/9/2005Written by: Krista VernoffDirected by: Adam Davidson(Meredith and Cristina are jogging in the park)Cristina: Uh...Uh. (Meredith jogs back to her. Christina starts jogging again.) Cristina: Oh you're stupid. Oh God. You're stupid, evil, sadist and I wanna kill you. Meredith: Endorphins are good. Endorphins are mood elevators. This is supposed to make us feel better. Cristina: Oh god. Do you feel better? (Christina stops jogging to catch her breath, while Meredith jogs around her in circles) Meredith: I'm stupid. Cristina: Slutty mistress. Meredith: Pregnant whore. Cristina: Sleeping with our bosses was a great idea. (Meredith stops to catch her breath too) Meredith: You know what's ruined for me? Cristina (in pain): Ah? Meredith: Ferry boats. I used to love ferry boats and Derek's got a thing for ferry boats. Now every time I see a frigging ferry boat... Cristina (cuts off Meredith): You know what's ruined for me? Coronary artery by-pass grafts ... and aortic aneurysms. God I used to love aortic aneurysms. (Both lie down on the grass trying to catch their breaths.) MVO: Surgeons are control freaks. With a scalpel in your hand, you feel unstoppable. There's no fear, there's no pain. Meredith: Have you cried yet? Cristina: Hello? MVO: You're 10 feet tall and bullet proof. Cristina: Do you think we'll feel better if we cry? You know like just let it out? Meredith: Probably. Yeah. MVO: And then you leave the O.R. Cristina (unsure): Do you wanna cry now? Meredith: No. Cristina: Okay, lets, lets jog. MVO: And all that perfection. All that beautiful control just falls to crap. (Locker room) (Alex and Izzie are laughing together while the others stare on in awe) Cristina: What is she doing? George (unsure): She's hanging out with Alex. Cristina: Why? George (losing voice): I dunno. I think ... ... I think they might be friends. (Izzie & Alex continue laughing and joking with each other). George (whispers): Make the lambs stop screaming. (All walking in a hallway)Izzie: You guys are wrong about him, alright? Once you get to know him, he's really sweet. George: He's Alex. Cristina: Punk ass. Alex (calls back loudly): Hey Grey. Izzie was telling me you have tapes of your mom performing surgery. I'd kill to see the Ellis Grey in action. Izzie (calls back): Hey you know what? Maybe you can come over tonight and we can all watch it together? Right? (Meredith, Christina & George look at Izzie disbelievingly) Meredith: Oh yeah, if this were a hell dimension. Cristina: Yeah, run away pig boy. (George stops in front of Izzie) George: Do you have a thing for Alex? Izzie: No. Cristina (groans): Oh. Izzie: I don't. Cristina: Oh! Bailey: Are we saving lives or having a tea party? Walk faster people. (Derek is entering an elevator. Richard enters at the last second wearing an almost 'pimp' looking hat.) Richard: Ah hem. Derek: Nice hat. Richard: Shut up. Derek: What are you doing here? Richard: I'm going back to work. Derek: You're not cleared for surgery. Richard: Leave me alone. I've been sitting home for a week watching Oprah giving away things on TV. (stresses) Oprah, Derek! ... You clear me now or I'll hurt you. Derek: If you want me to clear you so soon, maybe you should've thought about that before you gave chief to Burke and invited Satan to Seattle. (Elevator opens and Addison enters) Richard: Satan? Addison : Good morning. Richard, like the hat. Derek: Satan speaks. Addison: Actually I prefer to be called ruler of all that is evil. (Richard laughs). But I will answer to Satan. Derek: What is she still doing here? Richard: I asked her to stay. We have a pediatric surgery attending on maternity leave. Addison (to Derek): Actually I could use you on a consult. Will you ah meet me up there Derek? Derek: Ah yeah. Fine ( Addison leaves the elevator) Derek: I'm not clearing you for surgery. Richard: Fine, I can catch up on my paperwork. (Richard leaves the elevator as well as doors shut. Derek laughs.) (Mr. Gaston's room. Dr. Bailey's group is surrounding his bed side with Dr. Burke) Cristina: Mr. Gaston is scheduled for resection non-small cell carcinoma today. He did well overnight, has remained afebrile. He's had a dose of ceftriaxone this morning. He's pre-op labs are unremarkable. His chest x-rays, um, are unchanged from the previous. Mr. Gaston: I own a couple of dry-cleaning stores. Never believed what they said about inhaling the chemicals, but... Burke: We're going to do everything we can for you, Mr. Gaston. (To Christina) Did Oncology see him yet? Cristina: Uh, they're waiting for the surgical path. Burke: Thank you, Dr. Yang. Cristina: You're welcome, Dr. Burke. (Bailey, Meredith and Cristina walking through the hall)Meredith: I know. I just think you should still tell him about the baby because he'd at least have the responsibility of having to pay. Cristina: No! You know what? He'll never know. It's over. Once this pregnancy is taken care of, Burke won't even be a blip on my radar. He'll be smudge. Meredith (sarcastic): Right. Cristina: You know, Meredith? ... Leave the sarcasm up to me ... Really, it doesn't suit you. (Kelly Roche's room. Dr. Bailey's group is now gathered here. Christina is looking through a medical book) Alex: Kelly Roche. She's 23 years old. In for a scheduled ETS for treatment of her erythrophobia hyperpyrexia. Izzie (whispers to Christina): Erythrophobia? Cristina: Blushing. Bailey (to Kelly): You have any questions about the procedure? Kelly: Oh. Dr. Sh ... (blushes badly and she tries to get it to go away by fanning her face) ... Dr. Shepherd explained everything. He was very... huh...helpful. He gave me some literat ... (blushing gets even worse) ... sorry... Alex: Don't be. Half the patients that come through here have the hots for Shepherd. Bailey (in a disapproving voice): Dr. Karev. Alex: What? ... It's true. (Izzie pacing with arms crossed, waiting out in the hall for Alex. George and Meredith are in the distant grabbing food from the vending machine.) Izzie: Hey, why do you do that? Alex: What? Izzie: Act like an ass when everybody but me is around, they hate you enough as it is. Alex (shrugs): So? ... (Izzie still stands there annoyed) What? (Dr. Bailey appears from the corner.) Bailey: Hey there's a new surgical case coming up from the pit. Likely diverticulitis. Let's go. (Izzie, Alex and George follow hurriedly. Meredith grabs her food and runs after them a bit behind) Woman: Watch it! Hands off me! I could report you to the chief and you'd be out on your ass. (Meredith stops recognizing the voice. She starts walking slowly to where the others are around another corner. Ellis Grey is shouting from a moving gurney. Christina is reading her chart, while Dr. Bailey, Alex, Izzie & George move the gurney.) Ellis: Where is the chief?!? Cristina: Patient's name is ...ah... Ellis: Where is the chief?!? You're all amateurs. Cristina: complaining of intermittent cramping pain and diarrhea. Also suffers from ...ah.... (Meredith can now see it is her mother and stares shocked, backing away slowly. Christina is knowing its Meredith's mother is unsure if she should continue. She makes brief eye contact with Meredith.) Ellis (yells): AMATEURS!!!! Cristina: Alzheimer's. Bailey: Patient's name? Cristina: Um... Bailey: Yang! Patient's name! Ellis (to Meredith): What the hell are you doing here? (Meredith scurries off, hiding behind an office corner, peeking her head out) Ellis (in an increasing yelling voice): Haven't I told? How many times have I told you not to bother me when I'm at work?!! (Dr. Bailey & the others stare at Meredith) Cristina: Ellis Grey. George: Meredith's mother. Ellis (yelling): You're amateurs! You're amateurs! (Izzie, Alex, George, & Christina all talking at once in the hallway just outside the locker room being blocked by Dr. Bailey. Meredith is inside) George: Meredith, are you okay? Bailey (places her hand over George's mouth): Just zip. (She hands chart to Alex). Dr. Karev stick with ETS case and Alex her blushing impulse not a toy for you to play with or button for you to push. Understood? Cristina (sounding sincere): Hey Meredith, you know um my great grandmother, she died with Alzheimer's. Izzie: My god, why would you say that? Cristina: Look, I'm just trying to help. Bailey: Izzie, the Dr. Shepherd's need an intern up in the NICU. Izzie: Wait, both of them? ... To..gether...and me by myself with the two married people who hate each other? Bailey: Go. (Izzie walks off) Bailey: Christina you're on the thoracotomy. Cristina: With Burke? Oh can I have the hateful married couple instead? Bailey (annoyed): Okay, I'm sorry I thought that I was your resident not your hostess. I assign, you take. Is that a problem? Cristina (stutters): N-nn Bailey (annoyed): Is there some reason why it's inconvenient for you to spend the day in the OR. learning from Dr. Burke? Cristina: No. I'm very happy to be working with Dr. Burke. Thank you very much. (Christina walks off) Bailey: George, take care of Dr. Grey. George: Yes. Thank you. (moves in and hugs Dr. Bailey who is stiff and confused) She needs a friend right now. (George tries to move into the locker room, but Dr. Bailey throws her arm against the door way to stop him). Bailey: What? George: Oh you mean Ellis the ... (Dr. Bailey goes into the locker room. George walks away not sure where to go) mother. (Dr. Bailey shuts the door to the locker room. Meredith removes herself from hiding behind one of the lockers and goes and opens her own locker.) Bailey: Are you able to work today? Meredith: Yes. I'm fine. Bailey: Cause I would understand it if you wanted to be with your ... Meredith: No. My mother and I don't have the easiest...it's just better if I'm working. Bailey: Okay. You're on scut. Meredith: Excuse me? Bailey: While we take care of your mother, you can catch up on charting, run samples to the lab, go over (Meredith cuts her off) Meredith: I told you, I'm fine. Bailey: Yea and I appreciate that you're fine but I have to anticipate a certain level of distraction from you today. Even in the face of all that fineness. So scut now! (Natal Intensive Care Unit where Dr. Shepherd is going over the baby's chart while Izzie and Addison are watching over the baby who is in a glass encasing.) Derek: Where's the mother? Addison: Gone. She stuck around long enough to get the kid strung out and then took off. Nice, huh? Derek (frustrated): Addison! Addison: Derek I know it's a long shot. I know that. Derek: You told me you had a newborn with an invasive mash. You fail to mention that she's premature, underweight and addicted to narcotics. There's no way that this baby is going to survive spinal surgery. Addison: You don't know that. Derek: Even if she does, she's a mess. She'll just get meningitis seizures. She's going to live a short painful life. Addison: You don't know that. Derek: It's my job to know that. Addison: You're not God Derek. Derek: Excuse me? Addison: I'm sorry honey but you're not. You don't get to decide (she is cut off by Dr. Shepherd) Derek: Wait did you just call me honey (Addison tries to talk). Don't call me honey! (Izzie is getting uncomfortable with the turn of conversation) Addison: Fine. You're not god Dr. Shepherd. Look if a patient has any chance at survival, which I think she does, then you have a responsibility (cut off by Derek again) Derek: Don't talk to me about responsibility. Addison: You took an oath Derek! Derek: Oh don't you dare talk to me about oaths! Addison: Derek, I messed up. People mess up. Derek: You slept with my best friend in my favorite sheets. Addison: The flannel sheets? You hate the flannel sheets. Derek: No I love the sheets. Addison: You like the Italian sheets with the paisleys (cut of by Derek) Derek: Would you just stop talking about the sheets? Addison: Fine! Izzie: Look I'm sorry. I'm just gonna go. I'll go check on the labs. (Izzie leaves the room. Addison is upset.) Derek: Addison, don't do this. Addison: Derek ... look she's a fighter. Look how far she's come already. Derek: Don't get attached. Don't get involved. Just ... don't make her life more painful than it already is. Addison: Derek, please. She has nobody. She needs someone to fight for her. Derek: She's too far gone. You have to let her go. Let her go in peace. (Derek leaves the room) Addison (watching Derek leave the NICU unit): Fine Derek, walk away. It's what you do best. (Dr. Burke is packing his stuff away from Richard's desk. Richard is putting his own stuff back on the desk) Burke: I've enjoyed the opportunity to show you my capabilities in this arena however brief. Richard: Stop fishing, Preston. You did a good job. ... But I'm back now and I don't plan on going anywhere, anytime soon. Burke: I am glad that you're back. I'm just hiding my joy...deep down inside. (Burke picks up his box of stuff and moves to leave the office) And ah chief ... the hat ... it's a little pimped out. (Burke leaves. Richard takes off the pimp hat. Meredith holding a patient file knocks on the office door and enters) Meredith: Welcome back chief. Richard: It's good to be back, Dr. Grey. Uh what can I do for you: Meredith: It's my mother sir. (Meredith hands him the file. Richard flips through it, looks at Meredith and sits down) Meredith: I'm sorry I didn't tell you sooner. I know you two are close. But she made me promise. She seems to be reliving the heyday of her residency a lot these days. And I just thought maybe if you could stop by and say hello, it would mean a lot to her. Richard (takes a second to answer): Well of course. (stares at Meredith) Do you need a day off? Meredith: Oh no. I'm fine. Richard: Yeah. Meredith: Okay (starts backing away and walks out of the office) (George is trying to Ellis Grey a physical exam. She is constantly turning away from him.) George: Um...if you could just hold still (Ellis shrugs out of his grasp and grabs her chart) Ellis: I'm in the middle of my work day Thatch. George: Thatch? No, I'm Dr. O'Malley. (They wrestle for the chart, Ellis eventually yanks it) Okay. I just need to check your... Ellis: Darling I'm not in the mood to play doctor now. Hands off, I'm busy. Um... (Meredith comes and stands out at the doorway) Meredith: George. George: Um. Ellis: Damn it Thatcher I mean it no. Meredith: George. (George leaves the room to go talk to Meredith) Meredith: She's allergic to penicillin. George: Yeah? Oh yeah it said on her chart. Meredith: Oh. ... You just have to be patient. George: Okay. Do you um ... who's Thatch? (long pause) Meredith: My dad, Thatcher. ... What did she ... is she ... is she talking about him? George: Um...yeah. She's... Meredith: She never talks about him. George: You're, you're all right. Meredith: No, yeah, yeah. I'm good. George (murmurs): Good. Meredith: Um. I can't be here. George: Of course, I mean we're good here, we're great, so... Meredith: Okay. George: Okay. (George goes back into Ellis's room. Meredith peeks in briefly before leaning back against an adjacent wall. She sees Derek walking by and goes after him. He is going through some files. Meredith comes and stands at the door.) Meredith: Dr. Shepherd. Derek: Meredith. I heard. Is it true? Meredith: Yeah. Secret's out. Derek (sighs): Ohhh. Meredith: Dr. Shepherd, I ... (Derek cuts her off) Derek: You don't have to call me Dr. Shepherd. Meredith (adamant): Dr. Shepherd. I want in on a surgical case. I can't just do nothing all day. (sighs) And you owe me this. And I never ask you for anything like this, so... Derek: I have ETS this afternoon. You'll scrub in. (Derek leaves the room.) (Dr. Burke is operating, performing a thoracotomy on Mr. Gaston. Cristina enters the OR. A doctor hands her a gown) Doctor: Here Dr. Yang. Burke: You're late. Cristina: I apologize. (She joins a group of interns who are watching) Doctor: Suction. Burke: Just starting to dissect around Mr. Gaston's tumor. (Cristina seems a bit tired) Burke: I've almost got visualization. (Kelly's room where Alex is checking her glands. Dr. Shepherd enters the room.) Derek: Hey Kelly. Kelly: Dr. Shep (her face goes instantly red, she starts fanning her face again furiously. Meredith enters the room as well) Dr. Shepherd. God. Sorry. Damn it. Derek: Kelly. Kelly: Yup. (continues fanning her face) DErek: Kelly. Kelly: Mmm hmm. Derek: This might be the last time that ever happens. (Kelly smiles briefly) How are her labs? Alex: H&H are stable. Chest x-rays show no acute process. Derek: Good. You're ready to go? Kelly: Are you kidding? I've been ready since the 3rd grade. Derek: Did you read the literature I gave you? (Kelly nods.) You understand the possible side-effects? Kelly: Compensatory sweating of the back, abdomen, thighs and legs. Possible gustatory sweating. Horner's syndrome occurs in less than 1% of patients. Brachial plexus injury. Pneumothorax and hemothorax are highly unlikely but possible side effects of the surgery. Derek: You did your homework. (to Alex). Take her to pre-op. I'll alert the O.R. (Derek leaves the room) Alex: Do you know what all those words mean? (Kelly looks at him) Brachial plexus injury could cause paralysis of the arms. Pneumothorax is a collapsed lung. Kelly: I know (she is still red faced) Meredith: Are you sure you want to risk all of that? Over a little bit of blushing. Kelly: Is that ... what you think this is? A little bit of blushing? Just a school girl embarrassment? You both saw what happened when Dr. Shep ... (she goes even redder and starts fanning her self again) ... when Dr. Shepherd was here. What did you think? Alex: Well I thought you liked him. Kelly: I do but you think I wanna room full of doctors to know about it? Alex: It's not like we're gonna... Kelly: It's not just you guys. It's not just this once. It happens ... every time I have a feeling for anyone ... in my life. (she is trying not to cry) I can't ... get mad. I can't be happy. I can't feel anything without the whole world knowing. I can't have a secret. Can you imagine living that way you're entire life? (Ellis Grey's room. There is a loud smash.) Ellis (yelling): Get away from me you insipid little man. (She throws a pillow at George) George: Dr. Grey calm down. Ellis: Get out of here! Get out of my room now! George: Dr. Grey calm down! Ellis: Get away from my house! George: Please! (Nurse walks in) Nurse: What can I do? George: Calm down! (to nurse) Please get some haloperidol. (Nurse leaves) Ellis: Don't give me that look. That sapful, little soulful puppy routine. I know it by heart, Thatch! And I'm over it. (Alex and Meredith are coming down the hall and stop outside the room. Alex pokes his head in. Meredith is looking anywhere but the room.) Ellis: I don't wanna hear about your day, your students, your pathetic little research grants. My ... my work is what counts! It's what pays for this house. It's pays for ... it pays for you! And it pays for, it pays for Meredith! (Meredith is just listening now) And your precious lifestyle. So why don't you just leave me alone and let me do it!!!! (Alex looks disbelieving) Meredith make thinks she needs you but sure as hell don't. George: Dr. Grey. (nurse comes running in) Nurse: Here it is. (Meredith walks away into a room and sighs with her back against the door. It turns out its Kelly's room) Kelly: Are you okay? Meredith: That's something I'm supposed to be asking you. (George is running around the halls, looking for someone. Richard calls out from his office) Richard: O'Malley. (Richard walks out to meet him. He is wearing a golfer's hat now) I understand you're working on Ellis Grey. George: Yes sir, I'm trying my best. Richard: Right. Keep me informed of her progress and take good care of her. She's an old friend of mine. George: Really? Because actually I could use some help. Could, could you help me ... examine her? Richard: Um, ah... I'm just a little busy just now...uh..ah...gotta run. (Richard starts to walk off) George: Right. Okay. It's just that she seems to think that I'm her ex-husband and she won't let me touch her. (Richard stops, taking off his cap and looks at George) Richard: It's funny you do...look a bit like Thatcher. George (partly mortified): I look a bit like Meredith's dad? Richard: Um...just take good care of her George. (Richard walks off) George: But...like her dad? ... ... I need help. (Izzie walking down the stairwell. Alex catches up with her) Alex: Hey. Izzie: Hey. Alex: Woah, wait, wait. Izzie: What? (They stop walking. Alex reaches up and removes an eyelash from Izzie's face.) Alex: You have an eyelash. (he puts it on the palm of his hand) Make a wish and blow it away. (Izzie smiles and closes her eyes. Someone else is coming up the stairs. Alex is distracted) Alex: Hey Nurse Ratchet, there's a dead guy stinking up Room 41 25. (Izzie walks starts walking away)Do something about it before he rots! (Alex catches up with Izzie as they enter a floor on the hospital and starting walking down a hall) Izzie: See? That is exactly what I'm talking about. Alex: Come on. Izzie: Why are you so up-tight in showing people that you're a decent human being? (George comes down from another hallway and sees them. Alex goes to speak but George beats him to it) George: Remember when he wallpapered the hospital with pictures of you in your underwear? Izzie: Yeah... Yeah I do. (she walks off) Alex: That was before I knew you. (George walks up to Alex) Thanks man, very helpful. George: I need you to help me do an exam on Meredith's mom. Alex (sarcastic): Oh a standard exam. You did go to med school, right? George: She thinks I'm her ex-husband. She won't let me. (Ellis Grey rifling through her bed-side drawers. Alex and George enter her room) George: Dr. Grey. Ellis: Oh damn it Thatcher I'm at work. I've already told you I'm too busy to deal with you now. No more cartoons. George: She means interruptions. Alex: No more interruptions Thatch. You heard the doctor. (Alex walks in up to Ellis) Hi ma'am I'm Dr. Karev. (he shake's Ellis' hand) Please to meet you Dr. Grey. I've always admired your work. Ellis: So you're familiar with the laparoscopic-grey method? Alex: Oh I've studied footage of the operation you pioneered. (he removes his stethoscope) You're something else. (George is watching on) Ellis: Good. Well then we're wasting time. Let's scrub in. Alex: Well Dr. Grey I'm going to need to do a short exam before you start surgery. (Ellis looks on questioningly)I know. New hospital policy. Annoying PR crap. Ellis: Ah! (she removes her cardigan which is over her hospital gown) Make it quick. (Alex starts listening to heart beat with his stethoscope) Alex: Why don't you wait outside Thatcher? I can take it from here. (George leaves the room) Alex: Take a deep breath. (NICU unit. Addison is watching over the premature baby who is gripping Addison's finger. Izzie walks into the room with the baby's chart) Izzie: She's got a good grip. Addison: Yeah. Izzie: I don't think, ... (she shakes her head and paces the chart to Addison) it doesn't look good. Addison: She's a got a resistant strain of pneumococcus. The antibiotics aren't working. You may want to get yourself reassigned Dr. Stevens. I don't think we'll be operating today. Izzie: So do you think Dr. Shepherd was right? Addison: She's just too far gone ... She does have a good grip. (OR with Dr. Burke still operating on Mr. Gaston. Christina is looking exhausted and sweaty) Burke: The tumor has infiltrated the pericardium. (Dr. Burke still operating looks at Christina. She appears to be daydreaming.)Burke: Yang. (his voice sounds distant and muffled from Christina's perspective. Her surroundings appear blurry.) Yang! Cristina: What, sorry? Burke: Is my surgery interrupting your daydreaming? Cristina: No. Sorry. (Pans up to viewing room were other doctors are watching including Dr. Bailey. Izzie walks in and sits next to her. Izzie sighs) Bailey: You have a problem? Izzie: No. Bailey: You have a mocha latte? Izzie: No. Bailey: Then go away. Izzie: Actually I need a new assignment. The uh Shepherds' preemie case is not surgical. Bailey: Not surgical? Izzie: Non-operable. Bailey: Sucks. Izzie: Yeah. Bailey: Did you know about Ellis Grey? Did Meredith tell you? Izzie: No. It's just that you think, you think you know someone. You know who they are. You share a house. Make wishes on eyelashes with them. ... We don't know each other. None of us. We're just a bunch of interns who work together. There's nothing there. (Goes back to O.R. Christina is still seeing blurry) Burke: There is an arrhythmia when I press down on the tumor. That is a sign of what, Yang? Cristina: Um ... ... ah it's a sign of, it's a ... it's a sign that the uh tumor has infiltrated the pericardium. Burke: Possibilities? Cristina: In all...I'm sorry. I ... Burke: Do your homework Yang. It could be causing a tear in the aortic muscle of the heart. Doctor: Hmm. So he's got a broken heart. (Christina sways and collapses on the floor) Doctor: Dr. Yang are you okay? Burke: Cristina. Cristina. (Camera moves back to viewing room where Izzie and Dr. Bailey have leapt up to their feet and see Cristina lying on the floor, surrounded by doctors) Burke: Somebody help her! (The doctors lay Cristina on her back. Izzie & Dr. Bailey leave the viewing room. Dr. Burke has stopped the surgery but not moved from where he's standing. Doctors still surround Cristina) Burke: Cristina! Don't just stand there dammit. Somebody help her. Get a gurney in here!!! (Izzie & Dr. Bailey put on masks and enter the OR. Doctors rush out to get a gurney) Burke: Cristina. Izzie: Cristina. Bailey: We've got it Dr. Burke. We've got it. (Breathing mask is being put on Cristina's face) Burke: Okay talk to me. Tell me what we do we know. What do we know? Talk to me Stevens. Izzie: I don't know. Burke: Come on people let's move. Bailey: Cristina! What hurts? (Cristina doesn't respond but is conscious) Let's get her out of here. There's a patient on the table. Lift. (They lift Cristina onto the gurney and start moving her out of the OR) Bailey: Good, good. Burke: Dr. Bailey when you get her stabilized, I need a report please. (she doesn't answer) Dr. Bailey?! Bailey (busy): Right Dr. Burke! (They move Cristina out and down the hall) Bailey: Uh! Her pulse is racing. I need her on a monitor to get a BP. Also I want her started on a liter of LR wide open (Cristina is trying to talk) Izzie run ahead to emergency and let them know we're on our way. (Cristina is still trying to talk. Izzie removes her mask) Izzie (whispers): What? Cristina (breathless): Seven weeks. I'm pregnant Izzie. Izzie, I'm pregnant. (Izzie & Dr. Bailey stop and look at each other. They move the gurney into an elevator. Izzie is standing shocked outside) Bailey (to another doctor with the gurney): Uh, okay no. We're going to pre-op instead. (To Izzie) Find Addison Shepherd. Izzie be discreet. (Elevator doors close) (Addison and Richard walking down hall. Richard is wearing another new hat. This time a grey kinda 1920s gangster hat) Addison: So I'm leaving in the morning. Richard: No. Addison: Excuse me? Richard: No. I'm not accepting your resignation. Addison: It's not a resignation Richard. It's notification. I don't officially work for you. (They enter Richard's office) Addison: I came here for one case. I can track the twins progress from New York. Richard: What about the preemie? Addison: I'm letting go of the preemie, you know that. ... He calls me Satan, Richard. Richard: You don't like to hide from a fight. Addison: It's not a fight. He wins. (Richard puts away his hat) I'm leaving in the morning. (Addison moves to leave. George knocks on the door and steps into Richard's office) Richard: What is it O'Malley? George: It's Dr. Grey, sir. Ellis. (Izzie walking down a hallway looking for Addison. The level above where Richard and George are walking. Addison is trailing behind. Richard has switched to a bowlers cap now) George: CT confirmed diverticulitis but a liver mass was also found. Richard: My god. George: Poor Meredith. As if her mother having Alzheimer's isn't bad enough now she has to deal with liver cancer. (They start heading downstairs) Richard: You won't know that its cancer until you do a biopsy O'Malley. George: Right. Sorry. (Izzie comes to the bottom of the stairs. They stop walking.) Izzie: Excuse me Dr. Shepherd. We need you fast. ( Addison looks at Richard briefly) Um...it's Cristina, one of our interns. She's ... (she obviously doesn't want to say this in front of George) she's collapsed. George: Cristina's collapsed? Addison : Why do you need me? (Izzie sighs but doesn't say anything. Comprehension dawns on Addison and Richard, realizing she must be pregnant. George looks at them getting it too) George: Cristina's pregnant?! Izzie: Shut up George. (speaks to Addison) Please come. (Addison follows Izzie) Addison: This doesn't change anything Richard I'm still leaving in the morning. George: This is a very bad day. (OR room where Derek is performing the ETS on Kelly. Alex & Meredith are there as well) Derek: Okay Dr. Karev if were going to stop her blushing we have to expose the sympathetic ganglion chain, which resides where? (Richard enters the O.R with George standing at the doorway) Richard: It's time to clear me for surgery Shepherd. Derek: What? Richard: I know you heard me. I'm standing right here. Derek: Chief I'm a little busy. We'll talk about it later. (Richard walks in holding a mask over his mouth. The door to the OR closes. George is waiting outside) Richard: Just give a verbal okay and we can do the paperwork later. Derek: I cannot do that. Richard: I am your chief of surgery. This is not a request. Derek: With all do respect, sir in this situation I am not your subordinate. I'm your doctor. Once week after brain surgery, you are not ready to resume medical practice. Richard: It's a simple procedure. A needle biopsy. A resident could do it. Derek: So let a resident do it. What am I missing here? (Meredith is watching the conversation, realizes what it's about) Meredith: It's for my mother, isn't it? You think she has cancer? Richard: George needs your signature. (Meredith looks at Derek and then leaves the OR) Derek: Look Richard I know she's your friend but I'm not clearing you for surgery. (Meredith has come out of the OR to sign the forms needed to do the procedure) Meredith: What's her total bili? George: It's actually only 4. (Meredith nods) It's not great but it's not terrible. (George hands her the forms and a pen to sign) Meredith: That's why I didn't see the jaundice George (looks uncomfortable): No one could we just have to wait and see. Meredith: What aren't you telling me? George: It's Cristina. (Addison is performing an ultrasound on Cristina who is now lying in a hospital bed. Dr. Bailey is standing behind Cristina's bed, stroking her hair) Addison: Have you notified the father? (Cristina doesn't say anything, just sort of breaths funny) Bailey: Cristina? Cristina? Uh, Cristina? Cristina? Is there anyone we can call? (Cristina just continues slightly gasping) Oh we're losing her. Addison (pointing to the screen displaying Cristian's uterus): Oh man do you see that? It's an extra uterine pregnancy in the tube there. She's bleeding out. (Dr. Burke whose just coming out of the O.R now. He's stopped by Richard just outside the whiteboard which lists all the surgeries occurring in the OR's of the hospital and at what time) Richard: Ah good you're finished. I need you to do a needle biopsy. Burke: Uh...gotta go check on ... there's someone I need to see about. I had an intern collapse on me in the middle of surgery so if this can wait... Richard (adamant): No I need you to do a needle biopsy now. Burke: Chief now is not the time. Richard: Look, I'm not in the mood for a debate. You understand. You'll do it because I asked you to. (An intern is scrubbing off one of the surgeries listed on the OR board and is writing on a new surgery) Richard: Because I need you to. (Burke looks at him) It's Ellis Grey. (Richard walks off. Burke eventually follows, but misses the intern writing YANG, C E.R.A on the board) (O.R where Addison is performing surgery on Cristina to remove the pregnancy. Dr. Bailey is still behind Cristina watching over her. Izzie is observing Addison) Izzie: She's gonna be okay, right? Addison: How attached was she to this pregnancy? Izzie: I don't know. She's a pretty private person. Addison: She's lost a lot of blood but I've got it from here. (continues performing surgery) Dr. Bailey you must have a surgery or two of your own today. Bailey: I'm fine right here. (Derek washing his hands after the surgery. Meredith and Alex enter the room to wash up as well) Meredith (to Alex): Can you do the follow up? I wanna check on Cristina. Alex: Yeah. You know what's wrong with her? (Derek stops Meredith and holds her arms comfortingly. Meredith backs out of his grasp looking upset. Dr. Shepherd holds his arms up in defense) Meredith (sharply): Don't! Derek: Sorry. Meredith: Don't be sorry. I'm so tired it, you being sorry. Derek: Dr. (cut of by Meredith) Meredith: Don't do it! Derek: Dr. Grey ... Meredith (annoyed): Dr. Grey, seriously. Are you concerned about Alex finding out about us? Is that what matters to you? Do you really think he cares? (Meredith turns to Alex. Alex is trying not to look bemused) Meredith (loudly): Alex do you care that I was the intern stupid enough to screw the married attending? Alex: No. (Meredith looks pointingly at Derek) Derek: It's okay. Meredith (loud and upset): It's not okay! You have a wife who's not easy to hate. (They've finished washing up but Alex stays to listen behind Derek) Who's annoyingly kind and painfully smart and currently saving my friend's life. Derek (softly): Meredith just... (Meredith cuts him off) Meredith: Don't! Stop talking to me like you're my boyfriend! Stop talking to me at all. (Meredith leaves the room) Alex: Dude, that was rough. (Derek nods slightly and walks out as well) (Meredith who has run over to outside the OR Cristina is in. She's about to come in. Dr. Bailey sees her and goes over to stop her at the door) Bailey: Need something? Meredith: I'm coming in. Bailey: No you're not. Meredith: I am. I'm her friend. Bailey: Exactly. She's lying on the operating table, naked, exposed. She's sedated but she's probably scared out of her mind. Now right now she's not a doctor. She's not your friend. She's a patient and she deserves to have all the privacy I can give her. You're not going in there. (Addison and Izzie look on) Meredith (sighs): We went jogging this morning. I made her go jogging. There's no way that could of? Bailey: No. It started out this way. Nothing caused it to happen. Meredith: You have to let me in there. Bailey (jokingly): You can try. I'd have to take you down. Hey I might be short but you're pretty tiny. I could do it. Meredith: Right now. Just in this moment. I hate you. Bailey: Hmm, yeah well I can take it. (Dr. Burke who is performing the needle biopsy on Ellis in her room. George is inside watching) Burke: Alright Dr. Grey we're going to put you to sleep for a little while, but I promise we'll have you back into surgery in no time. Ellis: Richard, thank god you're here. You beautiful man. That husband of mine is making me crazy. (Richard is watching outside through a glass window) (Derek is looking out into Seattle outside the big glass window in the hall by himself. Meredith is sitting alone in a viewing room of an OR looking upset) (Derek is watching over the preemie baby. Addison walks in) Addison: Look at that, BP is stabilizing. Derek: She's stronger since this morning. (Taking her chart he goes to sit in a rocking chair in the room) There's no reason in the world why she should be stronger since this morning. Addison: She's really beautiful, isn't she? Derek: I'll tell you what. If she makes it through the night, if she has a little bit more strength I'll operate. (They smile at each other) Addison : You know the way I see it we could deal with us in one of three ways. (She starts moving towards Derek) Addison: Option 1. I could apologize. You could forgive me and come home and we could move on with our lives like adults. Or, option 2. I could apologize. You could forgive me, come home but, you can still bring it up to use against me whenever we argue. Derek: Are you trying to be funny? (Addison leans over Derek) Addison: Satan has a sense of humor. Derek: What's the 3rd? Addison: I don't know what the 3rd option is. (Addison leans in and kisses Derek. He kisses back. Addison pulls away) Addison: I just know that I still love you. (Dr. Burke and George walking down the hall with OR board) Burke: Tell them the chief said to put a rush on this biopsy. Tell them it's Ellis Grey. George: Okay. (George walks off. Dr. Burke noticing the O.R board stops and stares. George comes back) George: Dr. Burke do you want the histological grade and staging or any specific stains? Burke: Have them run all tests. (He continues to stare at the board. The camera focuses in on next to C.YANG: EXPLOARATORY LAPAROTOMY ECTOPIC PREGANCY PRPS. SALPINGO - OOPHERECTOMY INPATIENT Dr. Burke is shocked) (Cristina lying in a hospital room. Dr Bailey is sitting in a chair watching over her. There's just silence for a little bit) Cristina: What happened? Bailey: You had an extra uterine pregnancy. Your left fallopian tube burst. (she sighs) Dr. Shepherd ... she did everything she could but there was too much damage. She couldn't save the tube. (Cristina doesn't say anything, just closes her eyes) (Kelly's room. Meredith is checking her. Alex is going over her chart. Kelly is waking up) Kelly: Hey. Meredith: Hey. Kelly: Is it over? Meredith: Mmm hmm. The surgery was successful. We're just doing a follow up. Dr. Shepherd will be in to check on you in a while. (Kelly doesn't blush) Kelly: Say that again. Alex: What? Kelly: Say his name. Dr. Shepherd. (she still doesn't blush) Oh my god look at my face. Dr. Shepherd. Dr. Shepherd. Meredith: Guess it was worth the risk. (Kelly chuckles and is smiling happily) (Alex and Meredith leave her room) Alex: Still think its nuts having major surgery just so people can't tell how you're feeling. Meredith: Really, you do? Alex: Nah. I guess not. (Alex walks ahead a little but stops and turns back to Meredith) You could talk you know. If you need to. Meredith: I'm fine. Alex: You've said that word so many times today it doesn't even sound like a work anymore. Just saying you can talk to me cause even if I repeat every word you say no one around here likes me. They'll just call me a liar and move on. Meredith (smiling): Izzie likes you. (Alex turns away trying not to smile). You're blushing. Alex: Shut up. (comes back up to Meredith) Look for what it's worth, I don't know how you're still on your feet. If I found out my mom might have cancer I'd be under the bar right now. Meredith: You want the ugly truth? Alex: What you have an ugly truth? (shakes his head) I never would have picked you to have an ugly truth. Meredith: I'm more afraid she doesn't have cancer. Alex: Well. Liver cancer's fast. Painful but its fast and they give you morphine. They don't give you morphine for Alzheimer's. Meredith: No they don't. (sighs) What kind of person wishes their mother has cancer? (Alex doesn't reply) (Richard in Ellis Grey's room. She is sleeping) Richard (sighs): It's hard. I know its hard being the one who's gone. But man it isn't easy being the one who's still around. (Meredith and George waiting for her mother's biopsy results at the nurses station. Izzie comes in and sits next to George) Izzie: Hey did you get your mom's biopsy results back yet? George: Not yet. Meredith: How's Cristina? Izzie (sighs): She's ah... she's gonna have a lotta pain for a few days but she'll be okay. Meredith: I'm glad you were there. Izzie: Are you? Meredith: Yes, I am. Izzie: It's just (half laughs) it's just that a lot of the time it feels like you and Cristina are kinda over there and ... I'm here. Meredith: So bout Alex. Izzie: Yeah I know, I know. You guys hate him. Fine. (George groans) Meredith: Yeah we do but I just wanna say that I believe you. That he's different once you get to know him. (Izzie smiles) Lab Tech: Here you go. (Lab tech appears and hands results to Meredith) Ellis Grey. (She reads the results while George and Izzie look on. She gets up and gives the results to George) Meredith: Let her know. (She starts walking away) Izzie: Meredith, are you okay? Meredith: No. I'm not okay. (Ellis Grey lying in her hospital bed. George walks in) George: Dr. Grey. (She opens her eyes startled) Ellis: Oh please Thatcher I've had a long day. Go away (She closes her eyes) George: No! (she opens them again) Ellis: What? George: No. (he checks to see if anyone is nearby) I am Thatcher Grey and I'm your husband. And uh I know you don't like me very much but ... the fact is I don't always like you very much either. (Ellis looks surprised) I don't like the way you speak to me. And I really hate the way you speak to Meredith. She deserves better from you. Ellis: I'm sorry. George: You are? Ellis: What's wrong with me Thatch? George: Ah, the mass on your liver ... (she cuts him off) Ellis: Is it algebra? ... I mean is it alge ... damn it. (sighs) Is it malignant? George: No. It's benign. (Outside SGH)(Derek walking out of the hospital. He's sees Meredith sitting on a bench. She's crying but he can't see her face only her back.)Derek: Meredith? Meredith (softly): Oh. Derek: Meredith. Meredith (sobs): Don't. ... Please, please just don't say anything. Derek: Okay. (He's still standing there. She gets up and goes around the bench, stopping in front of him. He looks concerned) Meredith: I'm just exhausted. My mother is exhausting. What happened to Cristina and you. Hating you is the most exhausting. (She grabs his face and kisses him briefly) Meredith: I don't want to do it anymore. (She walks back into the hospital. Derek is stunned.) (SGH)MVO: No one likes to lose control but as a surgeon there's nothing worse. (Ellis Grey's room. She's made space for 'Thatch' on her bed. George stares. She pats it. He eventually sits on the bed and lies next to her.) MVO: It's a sign of weakness. Of not being up to the task. (Izzie & Alex standing in a hallway in the hospital outside a doorway) Izzie: How can someone be so offensive and yet so charming all at the same time? Alex: It's an art form. Izzie: Hmm (They both smile. She walks off) MVO: And still there are times when it just gets away from you. (Ellis & George. She kisses him on the cheek) MVO: When the world stops spinning. And you realize that your shiny little scalpel isn't gonna save you. (Meredith walking into Cristina's hospital room. There's no one else there) (Dr. Burke talking to Mr. Gaston in his hospital room) Burke: We went in expecting to simply remove the tumor. Instead it was a little more complicated. The tumor infiltrated into the pericardium causing a tear in the outer muscle of the heart. Mr. Gaston: Um. That's a lot of medical talk. Burke (finding it difficult to talk): It means um ... (clears throat and takes off his glasses) It means ... that you had... you had a broken heart literally. (he smiles wryly) um ... but now I am um ... (he half laughs) but now you're going to be fine. (He walks out of the room. He squeezes his eyes shut, trying not to cry?) MVO: No matter how hard you fight it. You fall. And its scary as hell. (Burke stops in front of Cristina's room. Cristina is sleeping. Meredith, Alex, George and Izzie are in there) MVO: Except there's an upside to free falling. It's the chance you give your friends to catch you. (Dr. Burke walks away) 2x04: Deny, Deny, DenyOriginal Airdate: 10/16/2005Written by: Zoanne ClackDirected by: Wendey Stanzler(Bailey and the interns are at the bar)MVO: The key to surviving a surgical internship is denial. We deny that we're tired, we deny that we're scared, we deny how badly we want to succeed, and most importantly, we deny that we're in denial. (Izzie grabs her drink and walks over to table where George & Meredith are sitting with their own drinks and nibbles) George: I don't know. When I left, Cristina said she was ok. Izzie: Nobody goes what she went through and is totally over it by now. George: Cristina can. Meredith: She's fine. Izzie: Too fine. She's cold. George: No, she's hardcore. She's got ice in her veins. She does what she has to do to get through it. Izzie: She lost a baby. She lost a fallopian tube and she's acting like she doesn't even care. She's all "Hello, I'm totally fine person." Ok, she's my friend too but she's acting like she has no emotions or warmth, like she's missing a soul. George: God, she's gonna make a great surgeon. Izzie: George! George: It's true. You show no weakness, you make it to the top. Meredith: Some people just keep their feelings to themselves. (Derek walks into the bar. He doesn't see her and sits down at the bar next to Bailey) MVO: We only see what we wanna see and believe what we want to believe. And it works. We lie to ourselves so much that after a while, the lies start to seem like the truth. Derek: Meredith kissed me. Addison kissed me. My wife and my girlfriend kissed me on the same day. Bailey: Joe, do I look friendly to you? Joe: Oh, you're a tiny little kitten of joy and love. (Dr. Bailey makes a face) What? He saved my life. Bailey: His first mistake. Mc Dreamy, go sit by someone who cares. Derek: Oh gee... (Derek doesn't move) MVO: We deny so much that we can't recognize the truth, right in front of our faces. Derek: Everything's gonna be fine. Addison will go back to New York. Meredith and I'll start over, everything's gonna be fine. Right? Bailey: You so damn stupid. (Parking lot then hallway inside SGH) (Bailey is making rounds with Alex, Izzie, Meredith & George) Bailey: I want everyone focused today. With Cristina out, we're short an intern and I have a feeling it's gonna be one of those days. And Karev, see the chief by the end of the day. Alex: What for? Bailey: Do I look psychic to you? He is the chief. He asked. You go. Meredith (whispers to George): What did he do now? George: Maybe he gave the chief syphilis. (Patient's room who is over crowded with interns, doctors and nurses listening to her tell a story) Woman: So we're in the middle of the Belizian jungle and this jaguarondi jumps out and bites one of the guides. (Dr. Bailey enters the room with her interns) Woman: They all look at me. They're yelling, "You're a doctor, help him!" This is one time a PhD does no good. Bailey: I'm sorry, did I miss the bell for social hour? (Everybody starts to leave except Bailey's group) Woman: Tales of missionary life. Izzie: You're a missionary? Woman: No, my parents. We traveled a lot. They still do. Izzie: Oh wow. This stuff looks great. (She is looking at some artifacts. She then sees Dr. Bailey looking annoyed.) Izzie: Um, this is Dr. Burke's patient, (pronounces name very American) Kalpana Vera...Kalpana: "Kull-punnah." Named by villagers in Nepal. Izzie: Uh, she presents with a multiple syncopal episodes and ventricular arrhythmias. Bailey: So you've been passing out? Kalpana: Yeah and having palpitations. Izzie: Past medical history of rheumatic heart disease with mitral valve stenosis. Kalpana: They had to ship me from Zambia to the States for 3 months of treatment when I was 8. Rheumatic fever almost killed me. Bailey (to Izzie): Dr. Stevens. What are the primary causes of ventricular arrhythmias? (Izzie moves to speak but is interrupted by Cristina who has come to the doorway in her hospital gown with her IV stand) Cristina: Valvular disease, mitral valve prolapse, stimulants, drugs, and metabolic abnormalities. (She looks pleased with herself. Everyone else looks exasperated or amused) Cristina: What? Bailey: Out! Cristina: I'm fine. Bailey: Out! You better be in your room by the time we round on you. Cristina: And when will that be? Bailey: In 15 seconds. 14. 13. 12. 11. (Cristina starts walking away, but you can see her underwear through the slip at the back of the gown. George, Izzie & Meredith laugh. Dr. Bailey turns away.) Alex: Nice panties, Yang. (Cristina closes the back of the gown so nothing shows and turns back to Alex.) Cristina: In your dreams, Evil Spawn. (Cristina's Room. They are now doing her charts for rounds. She is lying in bed. Her mother Helen is also there sitting on a couch, doing some sewing beside a window) Meredith: Cristina Yang. Post-op day 3 from a unilateral salpingectomy. Cristina: And ready to get back to work. Helen: Is she? Cristina: I'm taking solids and my pain is controlled with oral meds. I'm ready. Helen: Didn't the nurse say this morning you had a fever? Cristina: Mother. Bailey: Cristina, did you have a fever? Cristina: Temp spiked to 101 last night. Big deal. George: She worked 2 shifts last month with a 102 degree flu. Cristina: Yes. Exactly, George. Thank you. Bailey: And we appreciate your dedication but you're staying in bed until it normalizes. Helen: I keep telling her there's more to life than surgery and career. Cristina: Mother, go upholster something. Bailey: Look, I need you to relax, shut up and get better. You're a patient this week so you can be a doctor next week. Understand? (They move out of the room. Cristina pulls Meredith back) Cristina: Mer. Mer. You cannot leave me alone with her. I'm flying over the cuckoo's nest here. You have to save me. Meredith: You need time to heal. Cristina: I'm healed. (Meredith walks out of the room) I'm healed!! (Cristina looks annoyed, looks at her mother and then looks away) Oh, god. (Ellis Grey's room. Dr. Bailey and her group walk in. Ellis is lying in a pink robe in bed) Bailey: Ok, Dr. O'Malley, you're presenting. George: Ok, Dr. Grey is post-op day 3 from a tumor resection. Ellis: Wrong, wrong, wrong. He's got it all wrong. George: She's... Ellis: It's not asthma, it's GERD. He needs a Nissen fundoplication. I don't want her in the room. Meredith: Mom! Ellis: She's a child and I won't have her on my team. Bailey: We'll meet you outside, Dr. Grey. (Meredith walks out a little stunned) (Derek is arriving at an elevator when he sees Meredith walking by) Derek: You skipping rounds? Meredith: Avoiding mother. Derek (he stops her): Meredith... Meredith: You've got a wife. Derek: Yes. Meredith: You're life is complicated. Derek: Yes. Meredith: I don't need complicated. I have complicated all on my own. Derek: Yes. Meredith: Stop saying yes. Derek (smiling): I'm trying not to make any sudden movements. Meredith: You think this is funny?Derek: Addison's leaving. She doesn't have any more patients in this hospital. There's no reason for her to be here. Meredith: No reason? Derek: None whatsoever. (He moves in and strokes her cheek. Addison appears suddenly) Addison: Well now, isn't this cozy? Can I join in or are you not into threesomes? Meredith: I have to go. (She walks away) Derek: Meredith ... (to Addison) You really are Satan. You realize that right? If Satan were to take physical form, he'd be you. Everywhere, all the time. Addison: I am so not Satan. Derek: How come you haven't got on your broomstick and gone back to New York, where you belong?Addison: Stop being petty. Derek: Stop being an adulterous bitch. (Elevator opens but they don't get on) Addison: You know, you are going forgive me eventually, right? I mean you can't just ... I mean there was a time when you thought of me as your best friend? Derek: There was a time where I thought you were the love of my life. Things change. (Addison sighs and walks back to the button to get another elevator and presses it. She pulls out papers out of her bag and hands them to Derek.) Derek (looking at the papers): Divorce papers. (We can now see Meredith looking from the stairs nearby watching Derek & Addison) Addison: You're lawyer said they're ok. I haven't signed them yet. The ball's in your court. If you sign, I'll sign. I'll sign and be on the 1st plane out of here. Derek: I'll sign them immediately. I want you out of here as soon as possible. (Addison looks upset and walks into an open elevator but pops out quickly) Addison: Derek, have you ever thought that, even if I am Satan and an adulterous bitch, that I still might be the love of your life? (She gets back in and the door closes. Derek half nods to himself. Meredith is still watching but he can't see her) (Seattle Scenes) (Cristina's hospital room)(Opens with Cristina making notes in her chart. Dr. Burke looks in and sees no one else is in there, so he walks in. He removes the chart from Cristina. Cristina looks up and sighs) Cristina: It's my chart. Burke: You're the patient. Not the doctor. Act like one. (He looks through her chart) It's been tough finding you alone. Cristina: Yeah? Well ... Burke: How are you doing? Cristina: Well, you have my chart, you tell me. Burke (more forceful): How are you doing? Cristina: I'm fine. Perfectly ok. Burke: I had a right to know. Cristina: Well, now you do. Burke: Cristina (she cuts him off) Cristina: Look. Now you know. It's over. There's nothing for you to deal with. So I don't know what else there really is left to say. Burke: Plenty. For starters you could've come to me (she interrupts again) Cristina: Oh, look. It's my mother. (Helen has just obviously come out of Cristina's bathroom. She walks up to Dr. Burke) Burke: Dr. Preston Burke. Nice to meet you, Mrs. Yang. Helen: Actually it's Rubenstein. Dr. Saul Rubenstein of Beverley Hills? (Dr. Burke smiles and nods in understanding) The oral surgeon? I'm remarried. Been remarried since Cristina was, what? About 3? Cristina: Mom, that's too, too much information, he has other things to do. Helen: You're good-looking. He's good-looking. Why don't you ever bring home a man as good-looking as him? Cristina (quiet): Stop. Helen (laughs): What? Cristina (quiet): Stop talking. Helen: Cristina! (To Dr. Burke) Forgive her. I don't know what I ever did to raise such an unpleasant girl. Cristina (now loud): Oh, me? I'm unpleasant? Burke: Excuse me. (He leaves the room quickly) Cristina: Do you know who that was? That was ... that was my boss! Helen: I only said nice things. Cristina: Why'd you have to call me unpleasant in front of my boss? Helen: Lighten up, please! (Alex & Izzie are walking down a hallway in the hospital) Izzie: Okay I was thinking that maybe we might want to ... you might...Ok, we both have tonight off so... Alex: You are so into me. Izzie: Oh, shut up. Alex: It's sad. The worship. The adoration. Ah, I'm so handsome, I intoxicate you. Izzie: Ok, you know what? Forget it. Alex: Izzie, would you like to go out with me tonight? On a date? You wear something gorgeous, I pay for food... Izzie: Are you making fun of me? Alex: I'm not making fun of you. Izzie: Ok, then. Alex: Good. Izzie: Good. (Dr. Bailey & Meredith enter a patients room. He is in there reading a book) Bailey: I thought I told you I never want to see you again. Man: That's only cause you're too lazy to learn anything more. Bailey (huffs): Dr. Meredith Grey, Jeremiah Tate. He thinks he knows so much cause he was one of my first patient's as an intern. Jeremiah: I knew as much as she did. She was clueless about how to treat cystic fibrosis. A simple cholecystectomy turned into a month-long stay. Bailey: Better not be alleging malpractice. Guy raises about a 100 grand a year for cystic fibrosis, running triathlons. Thinks he's a big shot. Meredith: You run triathlons? Jeremiah: Why not? Bailey: Pain for one. Says here you're finally admitting to feeling a little?Jeremiah: A little. Bailey: How little? Truth. Jeremiah: Oh, enough to keep me awake at night. Had some seizures. Um...too weak to work out. Bailey: Anyone been through here with your CT results? Jeremiah: No. It's probably just my pancreatitis kicking up again. Bailey: All right then. We'll be back. With your results and a plan. (She walks to the door) Huh, where do your parents think you are this time? Jeremiah (he smiles): Hmm. New Jersey. (Dr. Bailey smiles back and leaves the room. Meredith follows) Meredith: What about his parents? Bailey: No, he doesn't like to bother them until he's well or about to get discharged. He understands his reality. He just chooses to ignore it. Denial works for him, Grey. (Alex is looking periodically through each file at the nurses station) Alex: Abdominal pain. Abdominal pain. Perirectal abscess. Gun shot wound to head. (He looks confused and pulls out the file completely) Alex (mutters to himself): Where the hell is the GSW to the head? (Calls out loudly) Why wasn't the trauma team called? Hello? Are you people insane? (A nurse comes to Alex) Nurse: There's your gunshot victim. (She gestures to a waiting room where a guy is sitting reading a magazine looking perfectly okay except for the slight reddish tinge on his forehead) Alex: Him? (Cristina's room where her mother is painting her toe nails red) Helen: I'm redoing the living room in beige silks, I'm thinking. And modern. Very mid-century. And the dining room... Cristina (interrupts): Mother, give me back my toes. (Helen stops and closes the nail polish bottle) Helen: Okay. I change the subject. (She moves to put it away) Who's the father? Cristina: Mid-century did you say? Helen: Someone you work with, right? Was it just for sex? You made such a point of not forming attachments. Cristina: 20 minutes. Just give ... All I want is 20 minutes of peace and quiet. Helen: The daughter I raised would appreciate her mother's help. Cristina: The daughter you raised is begging for you to go. Now! Helen: I didn't have to come here. You know I'm very busy. Cristina: Yeah, I know. I know. Redecorating your house. (Helen huffs. They look at each other.) Well, can you get me a mocha latte, please? Helen: A non-fat one. Cristina: No. A fat one! (Helen walks out of the room clutching her purse) (Another hospital room where Alex is giving the GSW guy a physical exam) Alex: You're walking ... you're talking ...there's no exit wound. This mark here looks more like a burn. Man: I'm telling you, I shot my self. Pulled the trigger while I was cleaning my .22. I thought the clip was out. If you're thinking suicide, don't. People make mistakes. I made a mistake. (sounds resigned) And now I'm paying for it. (sighs) But I did shoot myself. (Alex and Nurse look like they don't believe him) (Cristina is dressed in her blue scrubs at the nurse's station looking through patient charts) Tyler: Where's your IV? Cristina: I've taken solids. I HEP-locked it. Tyler: On whose orders? Cristina: Mine.Tyler: Okay. (Searches for her chart) Yang. (Looks through her chart) How about this order: "Bed rest, out of bed to chair, bathroom privileges." Nothing about stealing charts at the nurses station. Cristina: Ok, you know what (signals to man pushing a wheelchair) Hey, hey! Give me that. (Sits down) There, satisfied? I'm "out of bed to chair." Tyler: I'm telling your intern on you. Cristina: Meredith? Tyler: Yeah. Cristina (mockingly) Ooh, I'm so scared. (She wheels off with a patient's chart) (Ellis Grey is sitting in her room going through some papers. George comes into the room) George: Dr. Grey, how are you doing? Ellis: You here, good. I need the results of the barium esophagram or the EGD. (George looks stunned) And you have neither. Ok, no worries. I'll be here when you get back. (Richard comes to the door now) Richard: So today you're her intern. Well, that's better than being her husband. George: Well, that's a matter of opinion. Richard: Good morning, Ellis. Ellis: Richard, good to see you. (To George) I need those labs immediately. George (softly): Chief? Um ... she's not a surgical patient anymore. And I'd really like to get back to the OR. So, ah ... do you think I could hand her off to someone else? Richard (softly): O'Malley, Alzheimer's causes her reality to shift depending on situation or her mood. She needs stability right now. That's why I'm depending on you to keep a special eye on her. George: Yes ... I know sir ... but, you know it doesn't seem fair to me. Ellis: I need those studies yesterday. Richard: You heard the doctor. Get moving. (Cut to Kalpana's room where she has just taken a pill. Cristina outside in the hall sitting in her wheelchair witnesses this) Cristina: I saw that. (Kalpana swallows) I saw you take that pill. Kalpana: Oh it's, it's my pill. You know ... the pill. Cristina (looking over her chart): It's ah not in your chart and you're supposed to tell us the meds you're on. (Izzie sees Cristina and starts walking over) Kalpana: You're not my doctor. You shouldn't even be here. Izzie: She's right. You shouldn't be here. Cristina: I saw her take unauthorized medication. Kalpana: I'm on the pill and I had grapefruit juice this morning. Since the juice inhibits enzymes involved in the metabolism of OCPs, I thought I'd avoid the interaction by taking it two hours after my meal. Izzie: She's has a doctorate in neuropharmacology, Cristina. Cristina: Well, Izzie, I don't see oral contra... Kalpana (looking weak and in pain): Guys... Izzie(interrupt): Ok, so now you will. Will you just go back to bed and stop poaching my patients? (They start fighting) (Kalpana's heart monitor starts racing. Kalpana falls to the floor unconscious. Izzie rushes to her.) Cristina: She's in V-FIB. Izzie: Call the code. (Izzie thumps Kalpana's chest) Nurse: No code? Izzie: Not anymore. Can you help us get her back into bed? Cristina (struggles to get back into her wheelchair): I'll help, just give me a minute. (Male nurse moves to help Izzie) Izzie: Would you just go back to bed? Please, seriously, go. Cristina (struggling to reach Kalpana's chart): Oh, god. You know, Izzie, if she's on OCPs, can we mark it down, ok? Izzie: Yeah. (Radiology viewing room where Meredith and Dr. Bailey are looking over Jeremiah's x-rays put up on an x-ray board) Meredith: Jeremiah's got a mass in his midepigastrium. Diffused enlargement of the pancreas. That, with his hypoglycemic seizures ... Bailey: He's going to need an exploratory laparotomy. But, despite his triathlons, his lungs still make me hesitant to cut. Meredith: What are we going to do? Bailey: I don't know that yet. (Addison walks into the room and up to the x-rays) Addison: Doctors. Bailey: Dr. Montgomery-Shepherd. Addison: How old is he? Bailey: He's 26. (Meredith is looking annoyed that Addison is still here) Addison: Survivor, huh? Bailey: And them some. My patient for at least 5 years. I'm not gonna lose him now. Addison: You planning a laparotomy? Bailey: Yeah, but his lungs. Addison: Hmm. You know, I think I could help you with this. I've seen one case like this before in a 9 year old. We ended up having to do a total pancreotectomy. Bailey: I'd be honored to take any help you can give me. Meredith: You're a neonatal specialist. What ... uh ... this isn't your area. (Dr. Bailey looks annoyed. She shakes her head at Meredith) I'm just saying that... Addison (interrupts): I did 2 years genetic research in cystic fibrosis. I've pretty much seen it all, Dr. Grey. Meredith: Oh. (Elevator outside nurse's station. Ellis Grey is standing outside it in her robe. She walks into the elevator. Derek and Meredith are walking down the stairs together.) Derek: Just because she offered her services doesn't mean she intends to stay. Meredith: Well, what does it mean? Because it seems to me ... Derek (interrupts): It means that she's a good doctor. Meredith (half laughs sarcastically): Oh ho ho. Why are you suddenly defending her? Derek: I'm not. Meredith, she gave me divorce papers. She filed. Meredith: Oh. Well, that's good. Derek: All I have to do is sign, and I'm free ... We're free. Meredith: Is there anything to think about? Derek: No, of course not. I have to read through them, sign, then Addison's on the next plane out of here. (CT viewing room where Alex and CT Tech are looking at the films of the GSW guy. Well the CT guy is looking; Alex is flipping through a magazine) CT Tech: You say he got shot in the head? Alex: He says he got shot in the head. I say it's a mental defect. (A blonde woman in her mid-40s enters the room) Woman: Um, hi. Alex: Ma'am, you can't be in here. Woman: No, I'm looking for Samuel Linden, he ... (she sees GSW guy getting into the CT machine) Oh, my god, Samuel. Well how, how, how bad is it? Alex: Are you his wife? Mrs. Linden: Yes, for 21 years. Just tell me how he is. (Alex gets up to meet her) Alex: Fine, for a man who says he shot himself. Mrs. Linden (adamant): He shot himself! He was cleaning his gun. What is wrong with you people? Alex (tries to get her to leave): We'll know everything when we finish his CT. This is a restricted area, ma'am. You have to ... Mrs. Linden (interrupts): No! My husband has a bullet in his head! Alex: Then we'll find it. If you could wait outside I'll be with you soon as we know something, I promise. (He escorts her out and slides the door shut) (Elevator where Bailey is standing by herself, the door is about to close when Derek pushes it open and steps in) Derek (angry): Of all the fine doctors in the city, you accept a consult from Addison Shepherd. Bailey: Montgomery-Shepherd, isn't it? Derek: The point is she should be on her way home. (He stares at her) You're trying to drive me crazy aren't you? (Bailey smiles annoyed and pulls the red elevator stop button. A loud ringing starts) Derek (backing against the elevator wall): Oh hang on don't do this. Bailey (loud & upset): You think this (Derek groans) has something to do with you? You think I'm even thinking about you and your romantic problems? I'm trying to help a patient very near and dear to my heart. And if consulting with your wife...your ex...your mistress whatever it is that she becomes, if that's the thing I have to do to save my patient, then I'm damn well gonna do it. Derek (moves from the wall looking slightly confused): I understand ... and I deserved that. It's just that... Bailey (makes a face): Just ...you look. You have put yourself between two very fine women and you looking for an easy way out and you wanna use me,Aad the hospital and... somebody to make the decision for you, and it's not gonna happen. (Derek still looks confused) She pushes the stop button off.) Derek: Could I just, could I just say a couple of things? Bailey (puts her hand up in a no gesture): Just... (Derek looks at her but doesn't say anything.) (Kalpana's room where she is back in bed. Dr. Burke, Izzie and the male nurse are there as well) Burke: You scared us a little there. (To Izzie) How's her workup coming? (Male nurse leaves) Izzie: Uh, electrolytes are within normal limits, Urine tox was negative and EKG's fine. Tilt test is scheduled for noon. Oh, and she's on contraceptives. Burke: So? Kalpana: That's what I said. That other doctor made such a big deal of it. Izzie: She didn't tell us before so I documented it in her med list. Burke: What other doctor? Izzie: Cristina. She was wandering the halls. (Dr. Burke nods and smiles) Burke: Fine. Take her down for an echo. Kalpana: An echo? What about cardioversion or ablation? Won't I need a pacemaker or a permanent internal defibrillator? Burke: Although it would be unusual for rheumatic heart disease to cause ventricular dysrhythmias we still gotta check your valves. (Dr. Burke leaves the room. Kalpana looks after him) Izzie: I thought your doctorate was in neuropharmacology, not medicine. Kalpana: It is. (Izzie nods and leaves) (Meredith and Cristina at their hangout in the abandoned hallway. They're both sitting on an empty bed. Cristina is looking over Kalpana's chart with medical books at her side) Meredith: Addison gave Derek divorce papers, which is good. I mean she's still here, being Addison, but it's not like I'm jealous or anything. Cristina (looking at the chart): That's odd. Meredith: That's odd I'm not jealous? Cristina: No, you have every right to be jealous. It's your territory and she's peeing all over it. (Looks back at the chart) What's odd is Burke's patient. She's been in 4 other hospitals this year. You know something's not right. Meredith: You seem awfully interested in Burke's patient. Cristina: This has nothing to do with Burke. Meredith: Cristina you lost a fallopian tube, a baby and a boyfriend all in one day. You have the right to be upset. Cristina: And you're losing Mc Dreamy to his perfect wife. You have a right to be jealous. Meredith: I did not lose Mc Dreamy. Divorce papers, remember? And I'm not jealous. Cristina: And I'm not upset. Meredith: You really should be in your room. Cristina: Ok, if the situation was reversed, would you wanna spend time with your mother in a confined room with one window? Meredith: Do you think we're like them? Our mothers? (Cristina gives her a look) (Meredith is standing in her mother's room. The bed is empty. Ellis isn't there. The male nurse comes in and stops when he doesn't see Ellis there either.) Tyler: Uh, where's your mom? Meredith: Exactly. Where is my mother? (George comes in) George: Where's your mother? Meredith: Funny you should ask! George: Oh, crap. (He leaves the room) (CT viewing room. CT Tech is looking at Samuel's scans. Alex is writing stuff.) CT Tech: Oh, man, you are not going to believe this. (Alex looks up. It's obvious on the scan that a bullet is inside the guy's head at the edge of his skull) Alex: No. It can't be. The guy was reading a freaking magazine. Ellis: It's definitely a bullet. (Alex & CT Tech turn around. Ellis has entered into the room unannounced dressed in dark blue scrubs) One that tracked clear through his head. Now are you people just going to sit here or you gonna get him into surgery? (Alex and CT guy look at each other) (Ellis is pointing to the CT scans explaining stuff to Alex) Ellis: Here's the missile track. As you can see it doesn't even cross the midline. (CT Tech is standing at the door. Derek walks up to him) CT Tech: She's over there. Ellis: He's lucky. This guy may be even better talking to. (Dr. Shepard and CT guy walk in) He'll need debridement of the entrance wound and repair the dura, but we won't need to remove the bullet. (George comes in with a wheelchair) Derek: That's an excellent diagnosis, Dr. Grey. I'm Dr. Shepherd, I'm your neuro consult. George: Dr. Grey, they need you upstairs. (Ellis gets up) Ellis (to Derek): You'll book the OR and staff? Alex: I'm on it. (Ellis gets into the wheelchair. Derek looks at Alex disapprovingly. Alex shrugs. George comes up to the screen with the CT scan) George: Unbelievable. (Richard has come to the room as well) Richard: O'Malley. Can you not handle this, doctor? George (walks back to Ellis, muttering): I can handle a lot of things. Wheelchairs. Come on, Dr. Grey. (He pulls the wheelchair out of the doorway) (Jeremiah's room where Dr. Bailey, Addison and Meredith are explaining the surgery to Jeremiah) Addison: We won't know for sure until we go in there, but it looks like that I'm going to have to take out your pancreas and re-route your intestines. Jeremiah (to Dr. Bailey): Did you tell her that my lungs don't do well with anesthesia? Bailey: Don't I always have your back? Addison: Your kidney function is decreasing rapidly and I'm afraid you're gonna go into multi-system organ failure if we don't operate. Jeremiah: If I say no? Bailey: There's no guarantees, Jeremiah. You know that. It's gonna be a long, hard surgery and put a lot of stress on your body. Jeremiah (smiles): Yeah, but I'm me. Bailey (smiles back): But you're you. Jeremiah: So if we don't operate, I die. And if ... we do operate, I may die. Addison: Basically, yes. Jeremiah: Well, I like those odds. And 26 years with this disease is awesome. And that's the reality. So if I get lucky ... great. And if I don't ... (he looks at Dr. Bailey and takes her hand in his) it's been sweet. Bailey: It's gonna stay sweet. (She throws his hand back, he shrugs smiling) (Derek & Alex are with Samuel who's lying on hospital bed now in a communal room with his wife standing next to him holding his hand) Derek: You understand that we'll need to do a psych evaluation: Mrs. Linden: How many times do we have to tell you? He wasn't trying to kill himself. It was an accident. Samuel: They're just trying to do their job, hon. Mrs. Linden: Well ... No their job is to make you better. Derek: Where were you when the gun went off? Mrs. Linden: I was in the next room. And I heard the shot. And it was awful. Samuel (looking at his wife): It's over now. Alex: Why didn't you call 911? Mrs. Linden: Because he was only unconscious for a moment. And then ... then he was walking and talking and... Derek (interrupts): You're going to have a give a report to the police. Samuel: Police? Mrs. Linden: What, what do we need to talk the police about? Alex: We have to report any gunshot wounds to the police. It's the law. (Derek and Alex walk off. Mrs. Linden strokes her husband's cheek and mouths it'll be okay. He turns his head away slightly) (Empty hallway with hospital beds. Cristina is now lying down still with Kalpana's chart. Her wheelchair is next to her with a dictionary on it. George comes in eating a banana and his lunch bag in his hand) George: You're officially AWOL, you know? Cristina: I'm working. Trying to figure out what's going on with the crazy woman on four. George: You are the crazy woman on four. Cristina: I made a break of freedom. Will you hand me that dictionary? (George hands it over.) George: You have a better patient than me and you don't even have a patient. He sits down in Cristina's wheelchair) George: Meredith's got a CF case. Alex's got the gunshot wound. Izzie's got the mystery arrhythmias. I'm not a nanny! I'm a surgeon. A cutter. But no, I'm getting fake labs for fake patients so she can do a fake surgery. (George empties his lunch bag roughly onto the bed. Realization dawns on Cristina) Cristina (to herself): She's faking it. George: It's real to her. It's Alzheimer's. (Cristina quickly gets off the bed.) Cristina: The missionary. Kalpana... Ah! (She hits George on the side of the head and walks off) Oh, god. Thank you! George: Ow! Uncalled for. (Nurse's station where Izzie is searching through patient charts. Cristina appears with the Kalpana's chart) Cristina: Hey, Izzie, how have her studies been?Izzie (interrupts): Hey! I've been looking for that everywhere. (Takes chart off Cristina and starts writing in it) Cristina (continues): Negative, right? Izzie: Oh! The echo tests showed mild mitral stenosis, the tilt test was negative. We're doing EP studies. Cristina: I can tell you what's wrong with her without sticking electrodes in her heart. (Cristina takes a seat in a desk chair) Izzie (disbelieving): Really. Just by the chart? Cristina: No, from the pill she took. Izzie: They were contraceptives, Cristina! Why are you so obsessed with this? Just go back to bed! Cristina: I think she's doing this to herself. Izzie (disbelieving): You think she's inducing ventricular arrhythmias? She'd have to be crazy to do... Cristina (interrupts): No, no, no. She'd have to have Munchausen's. Izzie: Okay wait. You think she's secretly ingesting something to produce real symptoms? (Dr. Burke has come in behind Cristina searching for a chart)... Seriously? Cristina: Yep. Just run it by Burke and tell me what he thinks. Izzie(handing the chart to Dr. Burke): Tell him yourself. He's standing right behind you. (Cristina looks up) Dr. Burke. (Izzie walks off. Dr. Burke looks at Cristina. Cristina sighs and puts her hand over her face) (Alex walks away from Samuel who's still lying in bed with his wife sitting next to him. He's walking to Derek who's going over some files sitting at a nurse's station) Derek: Where are we? Alex: Oh, OR. 2 in 30 minutes. He's prepped, transport's on the way. (They hear loud whispered yelling coming from Samuel & Mrs. Linden and look over) Mrs. Linden: Do you understand that? 21 years! Derek: What's that all about? Alex: I haven't got a clue. (Samuel & Mrs. Linden) Samuel: How many times do I have to tell you? I'm sorry. I love you, I forgive you. Mrs. Linden: You cheated on me! You cheated on me! And you do not get to play the martyr here! Samuel: I've got a bullet in my head! Mrs. Linden: And that doesn't make us even! Samuel: You shot me! (Derek and Alex) Derek: I think we need to get the police up here right now. (Alex nods and Derek picks up a phone) (Cristina and Dr. Burke talking in the office behind the nurse's station) Cristina: I mean, she obviously loves the patient role. She practically lives in hospitals. And ... and, and we're like an imaginary family to her because her really family blows her off to go take care of other people. ... And, and I saw her take something. Burke: It's not enough. We have to rule out everything else. Everything physical. Cristina: She even lied about her job. She's a pharmacy tech, not a PhD. Burke: So she's a liar. I've been lied to before. (Burke sits down. Cristina gives him a look.) Cristina: Hey, we're not talking about us here. Burke: Maybe we should be. Cristina: I didn't lie! Burke: You withheld with truth. How was I ... Cristina (interrupts): Ok, you know what? I distinctly remember you breaking things off with me. And you didn't seem so upset about it. And this? (Indicates herself and him) This is, this is not a relationship. This is not real. Burke (interrupts): Cristina! Cristina (starts walking out of the room): Okay, and, and so what's with the big display of fake hurt and drama? (She opens the door) Burke: Cristina! Cristina: I'm supposed to be in bed. (She leaves & closes the door) Burke: Cristina! (Burke is left looking frustrated) (Samuel is being wheeled away to the OR. Mrs. Linden is standing where his bed used to be. Derek leaves Samuel and looks over and makes eye contact with Meredith. The cops come to where Mrs. Linden is, Derek goes over there.) Derek: Officers, thanks for coming.Officer: Ma'am, why don't you have a seat? We need to ask you a few questions. Mrs. Linden: Oh, I, I, of course. (Meredith is at the Nurse's station looking at a chart. Addison comes up behind her looking through some files.) Addison: Well, nothing like a domestic dispute to liven up a pre-op, huh? (Meredith gives her a look. They both walk over to a bed where Jeremiah and Dr. Bailey are. Jeremiah is looking at some forms) Jeremiah: Where do I sign? Bailey: Here, for consent. And here for DNR and no extraordinary measures. (Jeremiah signs) Bailey: Good. Ok, lift up for me. (Jeremiah lifts up in obvious pain as Dr. Bailey uses her stethoscope to listen to his heart beat) Jeremiah: You should probably call my parents. Bailey: Call them yourself when you walk out of here. (George is walking into Ellis Grey's room) George: Dr. Grey, I have those labs ... (He stops when he sees her bed empty again. The male nurse walks in behind him) Tyler (amused): Oh, no you didn't. You lost her again? Again? George: I am a surgeon. A surgeon. Tyler (chuckles): Yeah, well... You won't be when Dr. Webber finds out you lost Ellis Grey again. (George turns around looking a little scared. The male nurse laughs and walks away) (O.R. where Dr. Burke and Izzie are performing some sort of test on Kalpana) Burke: We're using three different catheters. Why are we doing that, Dr. Stevens? Izzie: Programmed electrical stimulation maps the heart's electrical system to find the focus of the irregular... Intern (interrupts): Um, doctors. Sorry to interrupt. Burke: Yes. Intern: Her urine's blue. Burke: What? (Intern holds up a bag holding Kalpana's urine which sure enough is blue) Izzie: Why is her urine blue? (Burke sighs, realizing something) (Richard is walking down the hall frustrated and angry. George is rushing following behind) Richard: She says she has a surgery scheduled with Dr. Shepherd?George: I turned my back for 5 minutes. Richard (angry): Why did you turn your back at all? I told you to take care of her! (He calms down and speaks quietly) Just get out of here. You wanna find a hot surgery then find one. You're free. I'll take care of her. (Richard walks off through some double doors. George looking upset goes back the way he came, opening a door roughly) (OR #2 with Derek and Alex performing surgery on Samuel) Alex: This is one sick bastard. We should flip him over, and give him a spine. Derek: Hold back on the retractor, Dr. Karev. (Speaks to another intern) Little suction bogie. Bogie: Suction. Alex: Covering for his wife after she shot him? Derek: He did cheat on her. Alex: And that guilt's worth a bullet in the head? Derek: Relationships are built on sacrifice. Alex: Not that kind of sacrifice. Derek: Hmm, I don't know. Sometimes a bullet's worth it. (Scrub room where Ellis Grey is cleaning her fingernails. Richard walks in decked out in dark blue scrubs as well) Ellis (smiling): Ah, Richard, I thought you'd never get here. Look, the OR's empty, I have a little time before my surgery. (She moves in and kisses him. He kisses her back. He eventually pulls away. Ellis looks extremely confused) Ellis: I don't think I'm supposed to be here. Richard: No. (He cups her face with his hand. She puts her hand over his and sighs) No, you're not. Come on I'll take you back to your room. (Ellis smiles and nods. Richard helps her walk out of the room) (OR with Dr. Bailey, Addison and Meredith performing surgery on Jeremiah) Addison: I need more traction. Dr. Grey?Bailey (to Meredith): Here give me some suction there. (Meredith gives suction) Bailey: Now Grey, retract the duodenum. Good. (To another Doctor) How's he doing? Doctor: Harder to ventilate and no urine output since we started. Addison (shakes her head): He's shutting down. Bailey: Did you increase his peak pressures? Doctor: Any higher, I blow his lungs. (Monitor beeps) Bradycardia. Pushing 1 of atropine. (Injects atropine) Addison: Try ventilating him manually, see if he starts coming back up. (Doctor starts pushing on a bag) Bailey (to Addison): Did we miss any bleeders? Addison (shakes her head): The surgical field is clear. Meredith: Agonal rhythm. (Monitor is beeping faster) Bailey: Any pulse with that? Doctor: No carotid. Bailey: Okay starting CPR. (She hands over her suction pipe and starts performing CPR) Push one of EPI. Addison: No extraordinary measures, Dr. Bailey. He's DNR. Bailey: No this is just good medicine. (The others stop what they're doing) (Kalpana's room with Dr. Burke and Izzie) Kalpana: Blue urine? Burke: A second drug screen was positive for amitriptyline, which, I'm sure you know, causes ventricular arrhythmias. Izzie: You knew it wouldn't show up on a routine drug screen, but I'm guessing you didn't realize it would turn your urine blue. Kalpana: I didn't do this to myself. You have to believe me. I'm sick! I'm sick. I have something ... Burke (interrupts): No. You're just deceiving yourself. Manufacturing things that really aren't there, seeing only what you want to see. Wasting our time, our resources, and throwing away your own life. Your illness is in your head, Kalpana. We will be transferring you to psych. (Jeremiah's O.R. Dr. Bailey is still performing CPR) Bailey: Come on! Come on, don't give up. Come on. Meredith: You're getting tired. Let me take over, Dr. Bailey. (Dr. Bailey moves away and pulls Meredith to where she was standing. Meredith starts performing CPR) Addison: Dr. Bailey, his intestines are cyanotic. There is no blood circulating. Bailey: It's been shunted to his brain where he needs it. (She looks at Meredith) You call those compressions? (She moves Meredith out of the way and resumes CPR. Meredith and Addison make eye contact) Bailey: Fight it. Come on. (Addison shakes her head. Everyone has stopped what they're doing.) Bailey: Why isn't anyone moving? Whose recording? Addison: It's been ten minutes since we've had a perfusing rhythm. (She tries to stop Dr. Bailey. Dr. Bailey shrugs her off. The monitor flat lines) Addison: It's your call, Dr. Bailey. Bailey (still continues CPR): 1,2,3,4. ... 1,2,3,4 ... 1 ... (She stops. The only sound is the monitor flat lined. Dr Bailey pulls of her mask.) Bailey: Asystole. (She looks at the clock) Time of death: 19:26. (She walks out of the O.R trying not to cry) (Dr. Bailey cleaning her hands furiously in the room adjoining the O.R. She stops when she sees some doctors covering up Jeremiah's body. Addison walks in and starts washing her hands. Dr. Bailey resumes washing her hands. Meredith walks in. Dr. Bailey leaves the room) Addison (sighs): It's hard to accept the end when you're too close. (She looks down at the wedding ring she has put back on her finger after cleaning her hands. Meredith notices this. Addison sees her looking) Addison: Look, I don't want someone who doesn't want me, Meredith. But if there's the slightest chance that he does, I'm not leaving Seattle. (Addison leaves the room. Meredith looks after her) (Derek and Alex with Samuel in a post-recovery ward) Samuel: What did she tell them? Derek: That you cheated on her. That she was drunk and you were cleaning your guns in the kitchen. Samuel: I'm not gonna press charges. Alex: It doesn't matter, she confessed. Assault the first degree. Samuel: They arrested her? Alex: Man, you should be grateful. Samuel: You know what I am? I'm stupid. Nothing will make you feel more stupid than cheating on the woman you love. You don't know what you're missing. (Derek ponders this. Alex does too and makes eye contact with Izzie who's putting a chart away at the nurse's station. She smiles and walks away.) (Cristina in her room wearing her own silk dressing gown. Her mother is back sitting by the window. Cristina is up standing pacing the room) Helen: Your latte is by your bed, and I'm pretty sure it's cold. Cristina (sighs): I don't need it. Helen: You should be in bed. Cristina: Stop it. I'm fine. Ok? My brain is fine. My body is fine. I'm fine. Helen: I don't know why I came. Cristina (annoyed): Then why did you? You know I'm ... You know just stop it. I don't ... I'm sorry I'm not that person. I'm sorry, I don't, I don't need you here taking care of me. (Izzie walks in smiling) Cristina: Well? Izzie: You were right. Kalpana definitely suffers from Munchausen's. Cristina (turns to her mother): See I was right. (speaks to Izzie) I was right. (speaks to herself, closing her eyes) I was right. (She keeps her eyes closed but her face starts screwing up) Cristina (starts crying): I was right. I was ... (Izzie stops smiling and looks at Cristina as if she's grown a second head) I was right. Oh...I'm, I'm (lets out a sob) I'm right. I'm (sobs) I'm right. I'm ... (Seattle scenes) (SGH hallway) (Richard is talking with Alex) Richard: You took the clinical skills section of your medical board exams after most interns, so the results are only now coming out. I got a call from USMLE this morning. (Realization dawns on Alex) Alex: Oh. So you're, you're saying ... Richard: Karev, you're still an MD. You still get to practice medicine. The hospital grants you 4 months to retake the exam. You study it, you pass it, you put it behind you. One misstep doesn't affect your career. Alex (nods): Right, right, right. Thanks. Thanks.(Richard begins to walk away) Alex: What happens uh if I take the exam for a second time and I don't pass? Richard: You will no longer be a surgical resident at Seattle Grace. Failing again is not an option. (Richard walks away) (Derek is sitting by himself with his divorce papers. He is struggling to sign them) (Cristina's room where she is sobbing loudly on her bed. Meredith comes running in. Izzie, George and Helen are in there) Meredith (panicked): What's going on? Cristina: I can't stop. I can't. I can't stop ...(sobs) Izzie: Crying. She can't stop crying. Meredith: I can see that! What did you guys do to her? Izzie: Nothing! George: She's going to dehydrate. Cristina do you want some water? (Cristina shakes her no, still sobbing) Cristina: No, no. (Meredith moves in to hug her) George & Izzie: NO! (George pulls Meredith away. Cristina has shied away from Meredith) Izzie: I already tried that. It just made it worse. Helen: I knew she'd break sooner or later. Just a matter of time. Cristina: I will kill her!!!! (Meredith starts escorting Helen out of the room) Meredith: Ma'am. Helen: I'm her mother! Meredith: We don't do well with mothers here. Why don't you leave and come back later. (George tentatively hands Cristina a tissue. Meredith walks back in) Meredith: Cristina ... Cristina (still sobbing): Make, make it stop. Make it sto-opp. (Continues crying. George tries to hand her another tissue) Cristina (yells): Somebody sedate me!!!! (George runs out of the room. Cristina continues sobbing) MVO: Sometimes reality has a way of sneaking up and biting us in the ass. (Ellis Grey's room. Richard is standing over her. He finds a soft armed restraint) MVO: And when the damn bursts all you can do is swim. (George is watching through a window) MVO: The world of pretend is a cage, not a cocoon. (George walks in) MVO: We can only lie to ourselves for so long. (George takes the restraint from Richard and places it on Ellis's arm himself. Richard watches him. Ellis looks at Richard.) (Kalpana's room where she is by herself) MVO: We are tired. We are scared. Denying it doesn't change the truth. (Dr. Bailey on the mezzanine in the hospital. She makes a phone call on her cell)Bailey: Hi. Mrs. Tate? It's Miranda. (She nods, her voice breaks) Miranda Bailey. I'm calling about Jeremiah. (She starts crying) I'm so sorry. (Cristina's room where she is now lying on her bed, silent tears still drip down her face. Her mother is entering things into her phone. Dr. Burke stops by dressed in a suit ready to go home. He enters the room and Cristina looks at him. He looks at her mother who stops what she's doing and stares. He puts down his stuff on a chair, smiling at her mother. She smiles back. He moves to stroke Cristina's hair) Helen: She doesn't want to be touched. (Dr. Burke pulls away and looks at Cristina whose trying not to cry. He takes off his jacket and gets into the bed next to her. He holds her in his arms as she starts to cry again.) Burke: Ssh. Ssh. (He pulls her closer and kisses her forehead) MVO: Sooner or later, we have to put aside our denial ... and face the world head on gun's blazing. (Alex has just entered Joe's bar. Izzie is waiting for him looking absolutely gorgeous. He still seems upset about the news Richard gave him) Izzie: Hi. Alex: Hey. Izzie: You look great. (She moves into to kiss his cheek but he moves away) Alex: Thanks. Izzie (smiling): Are you okay? Alex (abrupt): Yeah, you ready to go. Izzie (losing the smile): Yeah. You just ... you don't seem like yourself. Alex: No, ah look...We've got dinner reservations so we should go, so ah ... let's go. Izzie: Okay. (Alex goes out the door. Izzie looking upset grabs her purse and follows him. Meredith is taking off her coat and Derek putting his briefcase on a chair. They're taking a seat at a high table.) MVO: Denial. It's not just a river in Egypt. It's a freaking ocean. Meredith: I'm glad we're doing this. Derek: Me too. Want a drink? Meredith: Yes. (Derek knocks over his briefcase off the chair.) Oh. Derek: I've got it. Meredith (bends over): I'll get it. (Derek gets his brief case. Meredith picks up his divorce papers which have fallen out. She looks at them. He has not signed them) MVO: So how do you keep from drowning in it? (Meredith looks at Derek and he looks down. Meredith continues to stare at him.)2x05: Bring The PainOriginal Airdate: 10/23/2005Written by: Shonda RhimesDirected by: Mark Tinker(Seattle Scenes)(Izzie and Alex, outside of the house) MVO: Pain comes in all forms. Izzie (cold and sarcastic): I had a good time. Really. Thank you. It was the perfect evening. Best date ever. Whatever. Alex: Izzie ... Izzie: You know, I especially liked the part where you treated me like crap the entire night. That was fun. Alex: I had a good time. Izzie (confused): Really? Alex: Yeah. (They move into kiss) MVO: The small twinge, a bit of soreness, the random pain. The normal pains we live with every day. (Alex pulls away) Alex: I gotta go. (Izzie is left with a look that says unbelievable. Alex walks out the door) Izzie (yells): Seriously? Seriously!?!? (She slams the door shut) MVO: Then there's the kind of pain you can't ignore. (Izzie comes storming into George's bedroom. She flicks on the light switch) Izzie (loud): Seriously? (Izzie enters George's room waking him) MVO: A level of pain so great that it blocks out everything else. Izzie: Move over. (He rolls over) George (sleepily): I'm sleeping! Izzie: Oh, shut it. George (rubbing his eyes and still groggy): Shut ..... MVO: Makes the rest of the world fade away. (Derek and Meredith, outside the house) Meredith: I don't want to have this conversation again. Derek: Meredith... (Meredith opens the doors) Meredith: You didn't sign the divorce papers. Fine. I get it. End of discussion. (They both walk in) Derek: Meredith. Meredith (yells): What?!? (He just stands there) MVO: Until all we can think about is how much we hurt. Derek: Oh ... I usually just say "Meredith" and then you yell at me. I haven't thought past that point. (Meredith looks pissed) I actually didn't have anything planned. MVO: How we manage our pain is up to us. (She hits him with her purse) Derek: Hey. What is with that? Hey stop it. Ow. Meredith (yells): Seriously?!?! Seriously?!?! (Meredith goes into George's room) Meredith (loud): Seriously! (George rolls over) George: This is a very small bed. (George is lying on the bed between Meredith and Izzie) Meredith: He's a brain surgeon. Izzie: I look fantastic! I shaved my legs! Meredith: He's a brain surgeon. How can he be so brainless? (George sighs) Izzie Hello? Seriously! Meredith: Seriously! (He pats both of their shoulders) George: Shh. Sleep. (The power goes out) MVO: Pain. We anaesthetize...ride it out, embrace it, ignore it... (Cristina enters in the pouring rain, soaked) MVO: And for some of us, the best way to manage pain is to just push through it. (Dr. Bailey is in the locker room doorway) Bailey: You're dripping. Cristina: I'm back. I just wanna make that clear. I'm back. I'm ready to work. (Addison walks up) Addison: Has any one seen Dr. Shepherd, this morning? Bailey: His name is on the OR board. He should be here somewhere. (Addison walks off) Cristina: I'm good. I'm ready to scrub in. I'm 100% on top of my game. Bailey: You just got discharged. Pace your self. (Izzie looks at Alex) Cristina: I'm paced. I'm paced. Bailey: Mmm hmm. Rounds people. (They start walking out. Alex stops Izzie.) Alex: What? You're not talking to me anymore? Izzie: Ok, what happened last night? What is going on with you? Alex: I'm fine. What's your problem? Izzie (huffs): Fine. You know what Alex? No, I'm not talking to you anymore. (Izzie walks out.) (Patients room) Cristina: Dr. Bailey. Henry Lamott, age 42, is scheduled with Dr. Shepherd for a spinal implant... (Mr. Lamott turns up the volume, there are women laughing and giggling) Cristina: ...to control the pain of his herniated disc. Is allergic to all pain medication ... (Everyone stares at the screen) Cristina: Is that...? Mrs. Lamott: Porn. Bailey: Porn? (She looks up at the TV) Bailey: As in Porn?!?! Alex: All right. What are we watching? Bailey: Karev! Go stand in the hall. (Alex goes outside) Bailey (distracted by the TV): Uh, Mr. & Mrs. Lamott, I'm sure you are really nice people, and what you do in the privacy of your own ... Look, we can't have porn in here. This is a hospital. Henry: It's for my pain. My doc says it releases endorphins in the brain and helps keep my pain at a manageable level. (Interns are amused) George: Really? Bailey: George! Hall! (George walks out strangely) Izzie (amused): What is this? Mrs. Lamott: Nasty, Naughty Nurses ... um (she looks at the TV) 4. (Meredith, Izzie and Cristina tilt their heads while looking at the screen) Cristina: That does not look comfortable. Meredith: Trust me. It's not. (Cristina and Izzie both stare at Meredith) Bailey: Get in the hall! (Near the nurse's station) Bailey: O'Malley, Karev, you're in the pit today. Stevens, there's a cardiac patient waiting up for you on 2. Yang, keep an eye on the Lamott's. I don't want any problems. Go. (They all scurry off, except for Meredith.) Bailey: Grey, your mother's being discharged this evening. You've made arrangements or do you need more time? Meredith: The nursing home is coming at 8. Bailey (starts walking off): All right then you're with Shepherd, Derek Shepherd, today. (Meredith moves to speak) Bailey (smiling): Hey, life is short. Times are hard. The road is long with many a winding turn. (She is serious now) He asked for you. Take it up with him. (E.R room. George enters with Alex. Policemen are standing outside) George: Ok.Doctor: Pete Willoughby, 25 year old, GSW to the chest. Immediate return of 860 CCs of blood from the chest. Pete: Oh Man! This hurts. Doctor: He's put out more than 200 CCs in the past hour. Pete (in pain): They never tell you in the movies how much it hurts to get shot. George: Push morphine, 2mg. Alex, is this my case. Alex: Morphine, 5mg. You didn't even call him. George: I don't have to call him. I was here first. Alex: You got here first because I let you. ... Where's his chest films? George: I got it. You always get the surgery. Today, I'm getting a surgery. Doctor: Guys. Knock it off. He's one of Seattle's finest. You've got an entire police force watching you... (Police are watching from a nearby window) George: Page Dr. Burke. Let him know I'm bringing up a GSW. Alex: No, that "we" are bringing up a GSW. (Ellis Grey's room) Richard: Looks like you'll be able to go home today, Ellis. Ellis: But I still have patients to see. Richard: No. No more patients. I'll be back to check on you later, ok? (He hands the chart to the nurse and they start walking out) Ellis: You should know I'm thinking of leaving Thatcher. (Richard stops) I should never have married him. I'll leave him. You leave Adele. (The nurse looks at Richard) And then when our residency is over we can both get jobs at the same hospital. Richard: Why don't you get her meds ready for her discharge, nurse? (Nurse nods and leaves) Thank you. (Richard sits by Ellis on her bed. He takes her hand.) Richard: Ellis, that was a long time ago, remember? We had this discussion 21 years ago. Ellis: Think about it Richard. We should make the break now. (Richard sighs) If we wait until residency is over, you'll be at one hospital, and I'll be at another. We could end up at opposite ends of the country. It'll be too late. (Derek and Meredith run into each other in the hall) Derek: Meredith.Meredith: Your wife is looking for you. Derek (sighs): Oh, my God, this is hard for me, Meredith. Meredith: Well, let me make it easy then. I'm not gonna be that woman. The one who breaks up a marriage or begs you to want me. You can sign the papers or you cannot. The choice is yours. Either way, when it comes to this relationship, I'm out. (Derek looks at her) Now, where's this patient I'm supposed to be helping you with. Derek (points behind him): Down there. (Meredith starts walking that way. Derek follows) (Izzie checking a patient's heart. The patient's husband is there as well) Mr. Bradley: You shouldn't have tried to walk the dog in the rain. Mrs. Bradley: Oh, Lou, it wasn't the rain. I just passed out. Izzie: Actually, Mrs. Bradley ... Mrs. Bradley: Verna. Izzie: Verna. You presented with lateral ST elevations and reciprocal inferior changes consistent with an MI. A heart attack. Lou: Oh, my God! Verna: Lou, don't worry. I've had these little chest pains before and it turned out to be nothing. This is nothing. (Lou kisses his wife on the cheek) Lou, not in front of the doctor. (Derek and Meredith in a woman's room.) Anna: I've had a twinge in my back for a little while. I thought it would go away, but then last night my legs went numb. And this morning my back ...the pain is just too much. Derek: Miss Chue, we're going to put you on a PCA pump, give you some morphine which should help control the pain. Anna: Thank you. Derek: Ok. But there's a greater problem here. I've just taken a look at your MRI... (Anna's parents enter) Mr. Chue: Anna! Why didn't you call us before coming down here? Anna: I'm sorry. (To Derek and Meredith) These are my parents. Derek: Hi. Mr. Chue: What's going on? Derek: I was just about to explain that Anna's MRI has shown that she has myxopapillary ependymoma. It's a tumor in her spinal canal. But the good news is that we can operate. You have a 95% chance of fully recovering if we get you into surgery as soon as possible. We can't wait another moment. With a tumor this aggressive even waiting another day puts you at risk of permanent paralysis. Anna (looks to her dad): Father? Mr. Chue (shakes his head): No. No surgery. Derek: Mr. Chue, without surgery Anna will be paralyzed, probably within the next 24 hours. Mr. Chue: There will be no surgery today. We're taking her home. Meredith: Anna needs the surgery. Mr. Chue: And she can have it at another time. Derek: Look Mr. Chue... Mr. Chue (interrupts): We are taking our daughter home. (Derek looks at him and then Anna) Derek: Anna, you are over 18. You don't need your father's consent. (Anna looks at her father) Anna: I am Hmong, and my father is the elder. He says I go home, I go home. (Derek stares hard at Anna's father) (Derek and Meredith walking up an empty stair way) Derek: Hmong? Let's find out what that means. Contact Social Services, see if we can get anyone down here, and talk to them. Meredith: Do I continue to process her discharge? Derek: Yeah we have to. It's insane, but we have to. It reminds of this case I had in New York one time and this woman came to the office and... (They stop at then end of a stairway.) Meredith (interrupts): Look, do you need me for anything else work related? (Derek checks to see if anyone is in the stairway) Derek: Look. I was married for 11 years. Addison is my family. That is 11 Thanksgivings, 11 birthdays and 11 Christmases. And in one day, I'm supposed to sign a piece of paper and end my family? A person doesn't do that. Not without a little hesitation. I'm entitled to a little uncertainty here! At least a moment to understand the magnitude to what it means to cut somebody out of my life. I'm entitled to a least one moment (some one enters the stair way. He speaks quieter) of painful doubt. And a little understanding from you would be nice. (He storms off. Meredith just looks annoyed) (Dr. Burke runs into Addison in the hall) Burke: Dr. Shepherd. Still here, I see. Addison: I couldn't leave you. Have you seen the other Dr. Shepherd? Burke: I'll tell him you're looking for him. (Burke keeps walking and Cristina walks up) Cristina: So, um, thanks for, you know, being there. Burke: No thanks needed. Cristina: Ok. Burke: So where are we? Cristina: Uh the north-east corner of a hospital. (Dr. Burke glares at her) Cristina: Oh, I'm, I'm getting back on my feet. Burke: Fine. Cristina: That doesn't mean that... Burke (interrupts): Cristina. Cristina: It's my first day back, I've, I've got... Burke (interrupts): I'm not waiting forever. (Burke enters the elevator as Bailey walks out) Burke: Karev & O'Malley are bringing up a GSW. Wanna scrub in? Bailey: No can do. No extra work. I'm trying to get out of here at a decent hour tonight. Burke: What, you got a date? Bailey: Yes. Yes I do. A handsome man is whisking me away to a love nest for the weekend. (Alex and George are wheeling Pete through the hall) Alex: You got shot in the line of duty? Pete (has difficulty speaking): First month on the job. Can you believe my luck? A guy pulls a gun and I freeze up. The rookie let himself get shot. I'm never gonna live this down. George: Sure, you will. Pete: You think? George: Absolutely. (Izzie runs up to Bailey) Izzie: Hey, I got Verna Bradley's tests back. I don't think she had a heart attack. Bailey: Yeah but look at the changes in her EKG. She had something. Izzie: Yeah but her serial enzymes and her dobutamine stress echo came back negative. I actually think she's fine. Bailey: Get a cardiac cath. Izzie, be thorough. (Dr. Bailey walks off) Izzie: I am thorough. (George, Alex and Pete riding in the elevator) Alex: So, dude, what's the deal with Izzie? George: She shaved her legs for you. Alex: And?George: And you didn't even kiss her goodnight. Pete: She shaved her legs for you and you didn't follow through? Alex: Hey, I follow through. I always follow through. George (half laughs): You didn't last night. Alex: Mind your own business. George: Mind... (George takes a breath) She had expectations. Women have expectations. And you didn't meet them. Hey, I live with these women and every time you guys don't meet their expectations, I have to hear about it. I didn't get any sleep last night. So you know it is my business. (The elevator goes black and stops) Alex: Dude, we're not moving. George (sarcastic): Really! You think? (Meredith, Cristina and Izzie are standing in the hall when the lights flicker. Cristina is in obvious pain) Meredith: You know how long the surgical scar takes to heal. You must be in pain. You should take something. Cristina: Drugs are for babies. Izzie: I hate Alex. Cristina (looks at Izzie): The non sequitur award goes to... Izzie: I'm sorry. I hate Alex. Meredith: I broke up with Derek. Cristina: Burke wants to have a relationship. Izzie: Boys are stupid. (Izzie & Meredith walk off) Cristina: Yep. (The elevator is still not moving. Alex is trying to pry it open) George: "If elevator should stop, do not become alarmed." "Press the button marked alarm to summon the assistance." (He pushes the button repeatedly) They don't want us to be alarmed then why call the button "alarm"? Alex: That didn't work the last 5 times you did it. Get it through your head we've lost power. We're stuck here. (Pete moans. George and Alex check him) George: You ok? (George checks the BP monitor. Alex takes his pulse) His pressure is falling. (He whispers to Alex) Alex, there's a lot more asbestosis in the pleura back. We need to get him to the OR. Pete: Ok, you're whispering. Don't whisper. I mean, I don't wanna complain here, but I got a bullet in my chest and whispering isn't a sign I'm gonna be A-OK, you know? (Alex tries the emergency elevator phone) Alex: Damn it. It's out. Pete: It's bad. It's bad, right? George: Someone is gonna get us out of here. Don't worry. (Mr. Lamott's room) Cristina: How we doing? Henry: Oh, can you move me to another room? The lights and the TV went out. Cristina: Ah. Power outage in the east wing. They'll have it back on soon. You're not a critical patient. You'll be fine here. Henry: Oh, god! What am I gonna do? Cristina: You mean... Henry: Without my porn! Cristina: Read a book. Talk to your wife. Henry: No. School closed early because of the storm. She had to pick up the kids. She won't be back until after dinner. Cristina: Well, I'm sure you can find some normal way of amusing yourself. (She starts walking out.) Henry: No, I need my porn! Cristina (dismissively): Yeah. (She leaves) (Addison and Richard walking through a dark hall) Addison: Lightning hit a sub station. We're running on back up generators. One of them is down. (Richard puts his hands on his hips annoyed) Richard, breathe. Richard (frustrated): The only direct means of transporting from the ER to the OR isn't working. Don't tell me to breathe. I'll breathe if I wanna breathe. (He walks off. Addison holds up her hands in defense and walks after him.) (Bailey and Burke watching some men pry open an elevator) Man: Cars caught between floors. (Richard & Addison walk up to them) Richard: How bad is it? Burke: Two interns and a GSW to the chest. (Richard closes his eyes and puts his hand to his forehead) Addison: Good air in, (breathes in) bad air out. (Richard gives her a look) Richard: Come on people get those doors open. (The doors partially open to reveal Alex and George inside with Pete) Guard: It's jammed. It won't open any more. Bailey: Move. Move. Guard: This is wide as wide as it goes. (Bailey looks) Bailey (accusingly): What...What did you two do? Alex & George: Nothing! (She gets up. Dr. Burke takes her place and peers in) Burke: How's the patient? George: He's not looking so good. (Anna's room)Anna: Why do the lights keep flickering? Meredith: Something about a backup generator. This pump will provide you with a morphine drip and should stop your pain. Anna: I, I told you, I don't need it. I'm going home. Meredith: You realize you'll have to sign an AMA form stating that you're leaving against medical advice. Anna (nods): Fine. Meredith: I know this is new and confusing. ... I called a social worker and she's willing to come down and talk to you... Anna (interrupts): Spare me your white-girl, cultural divide love. I grew up from the street down here. I play in a band. I went to U-Dub. I get it. My father doesn't. He says no, it's no. Meredith: We're talking about your ability to ever walk again. Anna: That's what you're talking about. I'm talking about my family. Have you ever even heard of the Hmong people? Our religion has got rules that are way old and way set in stone and way spiritual and you don't mess with them. (sighs) You don't anger the ancestors. (She makes a face) Even if you pierce your tongue and play in a band. Meredith: What are the rules exactly? (Bailey is walking down a dark hall with a nurse.) Bailey: All I.C.U. patients are going to the south wing. All telemetry and step-down patients north wing. (Derek comes up to them. Nurse nods and walks off) Derek: You paged me? Bailey: Porn! As pain management? Derek (grinning): You met Henry. Yeah, there's a lot of different theories on how to treat pain. Bailey: Porn!!! As pain management? Derek: Look. It's possible that pornography like art and music can stimulate the brain to produce endorphins that minimize pain. Bailey: Porn! As pain management? Derek: I didn't prescribe it. It wasn't me. Take it up with the treating physician. Bailey: If that man turns out to be some sort of sex weirdo it's on you. That's all I'm saying. ... Oh, and you're wife's looking for you. (She walks off) Derek: I know. (Meredith comes up to Derek. They start walking down the hall together) Meredith: Derek. Derek: Yes? Meredith: You need to talk to Anna's father. I'd do it myself but I guess having testicles is a requirement. Derek (sighs): What happened to social services? Meredith: According to Anna they can't help us. Apparently Anna's father believes she's missing something that she needs for surgery. Derek: Missing something? Missing what? Meredith: One of her souls. (He looks at her) We don't need a social worker. We need a shaman. Derek: A shaman. (Verna's room) Izzie: Cardio tells me that your cath went just fine. Verna: Is that much bruising normal? Izzie: Your one looks good Mrs. Bradley and so do the results on your cath. You don't have any blockage in your arteries. Lou: Which means? Izzie: You definitely did not have a heart attack. (Both Lou & Verna sigh in relief and joy) Verna: So I can go home? Izzie: Not yet. Your EKG shows significant changes. And I'm gonna find out why before you leave the hospital. (Stuck elevator) Alex: Hey what are you doing? Pete (delirious): I have to get home. Alex: Pete, you're in the hospital. Pete (delirious): Need to get home. (George and Alex restrain him) No. Need to get home. (Dr. Burke peers in through the small opening) Burke: What's his blood pressure? George: It's not reading. He's too agitated. Burke: How's his pulse? Alex: Thready but it's still there. Burke: Do you have any instruments? Alex: Uh, just a code box and some gloves. Burke (annoyed): You didn't bring an open chest tray? Alex: No we thought ... Burke (interrupts angry): You don't have time for excuses. O'Malley, blood pressure. George: I've taken it 3 times. Burke: And? George: I can't hear systolic over 50. (Pete is really pale and wheezing) George: He's gonna die. (George & Alex look at each other. Burke makes a decision) Burke: Intubate him. I'll be right back. George: Wait. Where are you going? Burke: To get an instrument tray. You guys are going to have to open up his chest. (George and Alex look at each other. Dr. Burke stands up. Dr. Bailey is there standing next to him) Bailey: Are you sure about that? Burke: No. (He runs off down the hall) (George and Alex are intubating Pete) George: When's Burke coming back? (whispers) Is Dr. Burke coming back? ... Alex? Alex: Oh, would you shut up. (Outside of SGH) Derek: Mr. Chue! You wanna take Anna home for a healing ritual? Mr. Chue: When sickness comes, it means one of her souls is missing. Anna needs every soul intact before she has surgery. She needs a shaman. Derek: Well, you could of, told me that. Mr. Chue: Why? So you coulc call me a fool. Derek: I respect that you have traditions that I can't understand. But you're standing beside me in a $3000 dollar suit, so I also know that you respect the fact that I'm telling you Anna needs a surgery in the next 24 hours if she's going to continue to walk. She can't leave this hospital. Mr. Chue: She can't undergo surgery without her soul. She'd die. Derek: All right then. We're just gonna have to get a shaman. Today, in the hospital. Mr. Chue (mildly amused): Shaman's aren't listed in the yellow pages. Our shaman is 500 miles from here. You are an arrogant man. Derek: No. I'm just a guy with access to a helicopter. (Mr. Chue smiles, takes out another cigar and hands it to Derek) Derek: Thank you. Mr. Chue: Finding her soul won't be easy. Derek: It never is. (He walks off) (Richard & Bailey are walking down a hallway) Richard: This is incogitable. There's not enough power to move those elevators? Bailey: They're doing what they can to replace the back up generator now. Fire department is standing by. Richard: All critical patients? Bailey: Moved to the south wing. Richard: Incoming trauma? Bailey: Re-routed to Mercy West. Richard (angry): Look that back-up generator should've been replaced last year. Bailey: Yes, sir. Richard (angry): Why didn't it happen? Bailey: Chief, you ... eh ... have to ... ask maintenance, I wouldn't...know Richard (interrupts): Dr. Bailey, you know everything. Tell me whose butt to kick. Bailey: That would be your butt Chief. You didn't authorize the replacement generator, saved the money for the new MRI machine. (Richard looks at her) Um I need to get on back down to the ... (She gestures to the elevator and walks off. Richard is left smiling sheepish) (Burke comes back to the elevator) Burke: Hey! This isn't gonna be too sterile but we can still try. Prep and drape the patient. (Hands them the things they will need)) (Nurse's station) Izzie (to nurse): Hey, can you get me copies of all of Verna Bradley's medical records and page me. I'll be on the OR floor. (Cristina looks at her. Izzie starts walking off upstairs quickly) Cristina: Hey ... wait ... where (Meredith is coming down the stairs hurrying) where are you 2 going so fast? Izzie: Burke is talking George & Alex through heart surgery in the elevator. (She heads up the stairs. Meredith is already half way down the hall) Meredith: Shepherd is setting up a shaman healing ritual. Izzie (from up on the next floor): Rock on! Cristina (to Herself annoyed): I have porn guy! (Mr. Lamott's room) Mr. Lamott: Help please. ... Oh. Cristina: Mr. Lamott. What's wrong? (She picks up his chart and reads it. Mr. Lamott groans in pain) Cristina: Pressure's elevated. Pulse is racing (in shock) You're really in pain! Mr. Lamott: Whatcha think? Cristina (still stunned): Are you telling me the porn actually sedated you? Mr. Lamott: Oh, what did you think I'm some kinda pervert watching that stuff in front of you? Cristina: Well ... yes. (Mr. Lamott gives her a look) Cristina: Oh, okay, okay. (she grabs his chart) Uh ... you're allergic to most narcotics and NSAIDs. I, I suppose uh we could try droperidol and dihydroemetine. Mr. Lamott (in pain): No. That put me into a coma last year. Cristina: Well, ah um I can get anesthesiologist down here. (She shakes her head) Oh no but with your surgery tomorrow I don't think he'll give you an epidural block. Mr. Lamott (desperate): What am I gonna do? Cristina (scratching her head): Uh hold on. (Elevator) Alex: We're really going to do this. (George just looks at him. Dr. Burke peering through puts through his hand to hand over a pair of scissors and a scalpel to Alex) Burke: Take these. (Alex just looks at them and remains standing still) Burke: Karev, take the scalpel. (Alex just stands frozen with a scared look on his face. He looks at George) George: Alex. Come on. (He doesn't move) Alex! (Dr. Burke looks at Alex confused. There's a huge crowd now outside the elevator. Lots of interns and doctors. Izzie & Dr. Bailey are 2 of them. Alex just looks away from the scalpel and scissors. George annoyed moves.) George: Ventilate! (Dr. Burke is looking at Alex now concerned. George moves to take the scalpel and scissors) George: I got it. (George gives Alex an angry look. Alex is just looking down petrified) George (to Dr. Burke): What do I do? Burke: Make a large anterior, lateral, mid-auxiliary incision in the 5th intercostal space. George: How, how large? (Alex is now holding a light for George as well as ventilating) Burke: As long as possible. You need to get 2 hands in there. It needs to be long and deep. Use the scissors if you have to. (Alex makes eye contact with Dr. Burke. Dr. Burke looks at him but then turns his attention to George) George: Ok. (He is about to cut when Dr. Burke startles him) Burke: But, be sure you don't cut into the lobe of the heart. George: Uh, how can I be sure of that? Burke: You just have to be sure. (George looks a little panicked) George: We're not in Kansas anymore. (He starts cutting into Pete's chest) (Anna's room) Derek: Your shaman's late. Mr. Chue: My shaman is never late. (Derek and Meredith smile half heartedly at each other) (Crows outside the elevator) Izzie: You guys see anything? Poor George, doesn't have the steadiest hands. Bailey: Izzie. Izzie: Yeah? Bailey (speaks out each word distinctly): He can hear you. (Dr. Burke is watching the operation) Burke: O'Malley, how are you doing down there? (Fire department arrives) Bailey: Uh, fire department's here. They can get the doors open. Burke: No. Nobody moves. Nobody works on the elevator. I have an open chest and a very nervous intern in there. Keep them back until I give the word. (Dr. Bailey nods) Burke: O'Malley. George: I didn't cut the heart or the lungs. (Louder) Dr. Burke, I didn't cut the heart or the lungs! Burke: Good, good. Good. Good, O'Malley. Really good. Now check for injuries and do a pericardiotomy. George (concentrating on Pete): Uh I'll need some lap pads, forceps, Metzenbaums and Satinksy clamps. Burke (nods smiling, quietly impressed): Yes, you will. (Mr. Lamott's room) Cristina: You tell anyone I did this for you, not only will I kill you; I will sell your body parts for cash. (Mr. Lamott nods gratefully) Cristina: Okay. So ... there were these women. ... Nurses. 3 nurses. And they were .... naughty. ... Really, really, naughty. ... They were 3 naughty nurses. Uh saucy even. They were saucy and, and bad and naughty. 3 saucy, naughty, bad nurses. They were taking a shower ... together. (Mr. Lamott starts to become less in pain) Soaping each other up. And then this doctor walks in and he sees these 3 naughty bad nurses with these great big ... (Verna's room) Izzie: Mrs. Bradley, do you realize you've been admitted to the hospital on this date for the past 7 years? Lou: Oh, that can't be. I don't remember the date exactly but ... Izzie (interrupts): I have the medical records. On this date for the past 7 years you have what looks like a heart attack. Verna (smiling): No. No. I know I've had some scares but I, I don't... Lou (interrupts): Every year on this date? (Izzie nods) Izzie: Is there some significance to this date for you personally? Verna: No. Nothing. Izzie: What we're you doing the first year? The first time you had a cardiac episode? Verna: Oh, I couldn't remember back that far. Lou: We were in the yard. I remember because our neighbor ... what was his name? Verna (gets a look on her face): Ted. Lou: That's right. He died ... of an aneurysm I think. And we watched as the funeral home people took him away and you had your first attack. Izzie: And you were close to Ted? Verna: No. Oh. (Looks at her husband) We barley knew Ted. Lou: That was all very sad, but what does that have to with Verna's heart? (Izzie looks at Verna. Verna looks away) (Elevator) George: I've removed the small clot from the pericardium. No obvious cardiac injuries. Burke: Any change in the vitals? Alex: BP's still too low to register on the monitor. Burke: We need to cross clamp the aorta. (He grabs a clamp from a tray next to him and puts it through the opening. George moves to retrieve it) Burke: Stick your hand in and bluntly dissect down until you feel 2 tube-like structures. The esophagus will be more medial and anterior. (George sticks his hands in the open chest) George: Ah I feel one tube that is easily collapsible and the other is more muscular, spongy. I can ah feel the spine just underneath it. Burke: Yes, you're touching the aorta. George (to Alex): I'm touching the aorta. Burke: Wrap the index finger of your left hand around it and apply a Satinsky clamp with your right hand. (George puts in the clamp) George: Got it. ... Wait I...I think I can localize the bleeding. I think it's coming from the inferior vena cava. Burke: Can you find the lesion? George: Yeah. Yeah. I think I can feel ah (he fiddles around) ... it's too far in to repair. Burke: How big is it? George: Small, maybe. Maybe smaller than a dime. Burke: Ok, O'Malley. I want you to take your finger and plug the hole. (George puts his hand in) George: I think I can feel his heart... starting to fill more. It's beating a little stronger. Burke: Excellent. Keep your finger there. George: Ok, now what? Burke: That's it. George: That's it? (Dr. Burke turns over to lie on his back in relief) I just stand here with my finger plugging the hole? Burke: Until we can get you out of that elevator and into the OR. (George and Alex look at each other) Burke: Dr. Bailey, tell the fire department to get my guys out of there. Bailey: Will do. (To fire department) Ok, we're ready. Burke (rolls back over and peers in): O'Malley. George: Yes sir? Burke: You just flew solo. George: Thank you sir. (Seattle Scenes)(Anna's room) Meredith: Ok, Anna. We're going to shut off the PCA pump now which means you'll be in a lot of pain for the duration of the ... Anna (interrupts): the healing ritual. Meredith: Are you ok with that? Anna: Yeah. I can't find my soul if I'm medicated. No pain, no gain right? Meredith: Well, it's not just for your father. You believe it too, right? Anna: I know it sounds like a load of crap but ... watch the ritual. You'll see. Meredith: See what? Anna: The moment it happens. (Meredith nods) (The shaman comes to the doorway with Anna's family.) Anna: I'm ready. (Mr. Lamott's room) Cristina: "Oh, yes I'm so very, very naughty," Bianca said as she dropped her stethoscope. (Dr. Bailey is walking by the room and pokes her head in. Cristina doesn't see) Cristina: Me too said Crystal as she snapped on her surgical glove. (Dr. Bailey looks aghast) Cristina: And then there was Marta... (She stops when she sees Dr. Bailey looking at her demandingly. Cristina shrugs and gestures look at him, he's sedated. Dr. Bailey looks annoyed but walks off) Cristina: Where was I? Henry: Marta. Cristina: Oh yes Marta was the naughtiest nurse of all because she knew how ... (She stops when the lights and television come back on) CRISTINA: Oh, thank god. (Anna's room where the healing ritual is taking place) Derek: How long do you think it takes to retrieve a lost soul? Meredith: I don't know. (Elevator, Izzie is looking in) Izzie (smiling): Way to go George! George: I have my finger in a heart. Izzie: Very cool. (She stops smiling when she makes eye contact with Alex who looks upset) (Ellis's room) (Verna's room) Izzie: You have stress cardiomyopathy. Verna: Cardiomyopathy? What does... can you tell me what that is? Izzie: It's Ted. Verna: Ted? Izzie: Ted. Not just the neighbor you barely knew, was he? Verna (trying to not get emotional): I don't know what you're talking about. Izzie: Cause every year on the day he died, you get a rush of adrenaline caused by stress. Your pressure rises. You have chest pains. And you end up here. Verna: 27 years. I loved the man next door, and he loved me. I know how this is gonna sound but Ted was my soul mate. And then he just died! Izzie (quietly): Its grief. Your heart stops because you're grieving for Ted. Verna (teary): So ... what do I do next? ... I mean how do you treat it? Izzie: I wish I knew. (George talking with the police being congratulated. Alex just walks away) (Derek and Meredith watching the healing ritual) (Richard enters Ellis's room) Ellis: I told Thatch I'm leaving him. Richard: You left Thatcher, Ellis. But I couldn't bring myself to leave Adele. Do you remember? Ellis: Painted horses. Richard: Yes. We were on the carousel in the park. It was raining. Ellis: I have an offer from Boston General. Richard: You took it to get away. We swore to never to talk again about what we had together. It was gonna always be our secret. Ellis: Richard. Richard: Yes, Ellis? Ellis: Carousels give me the creeps. (Mr. Lamott's room) Cristina: How do you put up with it? ... I mean 'Nasty Naughty Nurses 4' and I'm assuming 1, 2 & 3. Mrs. Lamott: He's my Henry. Cristina: I know, but don't you find him misogynistic and degrading and kind of ... (she sighs) 24 hours a day of porn. Seriously that's your life? Mrs. Lamott: I'm grateful for it. It takes away his pain. You see the thing is ... Henry ... Henry takes away my pain. (Cristina looks likes she understands) (Healing ritual, Anna and Meredith nod at each other) (Derek and Meredith in Anna's surgery. Derek looks up to the gallery to see Addison watching, smiling. Meredith notices.) (Scrub room after the surgery) Meredith: I lied. I'm not out ... of this relationship. I'm in. I'm so in, it's humiliating because here I am begging... Derek (interrupts quietly): Meredith. Meredith: Shut up. You say Meredith and I yell, remember? Derek: Yeah. (Derek leans against the sink listening) Meredith: Ok, here it is. Your choice. It's simple. (She starts getting teary and emotional) Her or me. And I'm sure she's really great. But, Derek... I love you.... in a really, really big ... "pretend to like your taste in music, let you eat the last piece of cheesecake, hold a radio over my head outside your window"...unfortunate way that makes me hate you, love you. So pick me. Choose me. Love me. (Derek looks at her lovingly. He moves in to touch her. Meredith pulls away) Meredith: I'll be at Joe's tonight. So if you do decide to sign the papers, meet me there. (Meredith walks out. Derek looks distressed and sighs) (Seattle Scenes)(SGH)(Ellis's room) Richard: Goodbye, Ellis. (Ellis doesn't look at him. Meredith walks up to Ellis) Meredith: I am gonna come see you tomorrow, okay? (She moves to step back but Ellis grabs her arm) Ellis: He doesn't love her. He can't. But he'll stay with her anyway. She's his wife. Meredith: Mom? (Ellis looks like she recognizes Meredith as she is today). Mommy. Ellis: Meredith. (Meredith crouches down. Ellis places cups Meredith's cheek with her hand). You grew up. Meredith: I did. Ellis: Hmm. It's a shame. It's awful being a grown-up. But the carousel never stops turning. You can't get off. Meredith: Ok. (She stands up and a person wheels Ellis out. She and Richard just stand there) (Joe's bar, Meredith is doing tequila shots) Meredith: You think he'll show? Joe: He'll show. (The door opens. Meredith turns to the door hopefully but it's George walking in) George: Hey! (Derek in the waiting room of SGH, Bailey walks by all dressed up) Bailey: How's your patient? The one who got her soul back? Derek: She's gonna be fine. (A man knocks on the window from outside the hospital. Dr. Bailey sees, smiles and waves) Bailey: Gotta go. Derek: Look at you. You're like a girl. (she gives Derek a look) Is that your date? Bailey: That's my husband. Derek: You're married? Bailey: 10 years today. Derek (shocked and smiling): How come I didn't know you were married? Bailey: You never asked. (He half nods) You haven't signed those divorce papers yet, have you? (He shakes his head no. She shakes her head as well) Derek: Bailey. Tell me what to do. (They both chuckle) Derek: God, why does this have to be so hard? Bailey: It's not hard. It's painful but it's not hard. You know what to do already. If you didn't you wouldn't be in this much pain. (She walks outside and meets her husband. They hug and kiss. Derek watches) MVO: Pain. You just have to ride it out. Hope it goes away on its own. Hope the wound that caused it heals. (Cristina enters the on-call room) Cristina: So here's where we are. I work too much. I'm competitive. I'm always right. And I snore. (Dr. Burke looks confused) Burke: What? Cristina: I'm trying here. (Dr. Burke still looks slightly confused) Burke: Ohhhhh. Oh. ... (Realization dawns) Oh! Oh. Cristina: Yeah. (She smiles) Burke: So? Cristina: Okay. We're a couple. Whatever. Don't make a big deal about it. (She walks to the door. But then walks back quickly, jumps and kisses Burke. She walks back and out of the room) (Derek is still sitting in the hospital) MVO: There are no solutions. No easy answers. You just breathe deep and wait for it to subside. (Meredith is still waiting) Meredith (sighs): He's not coming. (Izzie looks sad for her) You don't think he's coming. Izzie: He might come. Cristina: Yeah. You never know. George (to Meredith): He's definitely coming. (Izzie kicks George) George (to Izzie & Cristina): Ow. What? Do you want her doing tequila shots all night? I'll be the one cleaning up the vomit. (they look at him. He looks at Cristina) Besides, I touched a heart today. Porny. (The bell on the door goes off again. They turn to look. It's just a couple entering the bar) MVO: Most of the time pain can be managed. Meredith (to Joe): Pour me another one. MVO: But sometimes, the pain gets to you when you least expect it. Joe: I'm telling you. Any second. (Derek is still sitting in the hospital) MVO: Hit's way below the belt and doesn't let up. (Addison walks up to him) Addison: I have been looking ... everywhere for you. Derek: Well ... you found me. Addison: So? You gonna sign those divorce papers or not? (Derek just looks at her) (Meredith is at the bar, taking tequila shot after tequila shot) MVO: Pain. You just have to fight through because the truth is you can't out run it. And life always make more. (Meredith sits at the bar, very sad)2x06: Into You Like A TrainOriginal Airdate: 10/30/2005Written by: Krista VernoffDirected by: Jeff Melman(JOE'S BAR) (Meredith alone at the bar, drinking tequila again) Meredith: I actually said "Pick me." Right? I did? "Pick me"? Joe: I think it's romantic. Meredith: It's not romantic, Joe, it's horrifying. Horror movie horrifying. Carrie at the prom with the pig's blood horrifying. Joe: Ok, fine, it's horrifying. But Carrie took out an entire senior class as revenge. Gotta say, I like that in a girl. Meredith: I said "Pick me." (Izzie, George and Cristina also in the bar) Cristina: When you tell someone "I'll meet you later at a bar tonight," how long exactly does that mean you're supposed to wait? George: Do you think he's really not coming? Izzie: It is getting a little hard to watch. Cristina: It was hard to watch an hour ago. Now it's just pathetic. Meredith: Who's pathetic? (George & Izzie give Cristina a look. Cristina looks away) Cristina: What? Meredith (slightly inebriated): You, who pretend to be my friends are calling me pathetic behind my back in front of my face. (George points to Cristina as if to say her, not me) Why don't you just dump the pig's blood on me now and get it over with? (The door bell jingles as someone walks into the bar. It's Tyler the male scrub nurse. He gives a nod to them. Someone's pager goes off) Meredith (to herself): He's really not coming. (George's pager goes off. In fact every doctor's pager starts going off) Bar Patron: Joe, turn up the TV! (Bar TV is showing a train wreck) TV: A massive train wreck occurred just outside of Seattle just minutes ago. Cristina (looking at her pager): 911. Izzie: We just worked a 30 hour shift. George: I don't have any clean underwear. (They all start packing up their bags) TV: The Vancouver-bound train was carrying over 300 passengers. Joe: Looks ugly. TV: Paramedics are on scene helping victims.(He notices that Meredith is also getting ready to leave) Joe: You're leaving? No, no, no, you can't leave. Meredith: Sorry, gotta go tend to someone else's train wreck. Joe: You gotta at least stay for a cup of coffee. You're in no shape to cut people open. Plus, (he gestures about the whole M&D situation) I don't wanna miss the ending. Cristina (calls from the door): Meredith? Meredith: Maybe it's for the best. Maybe I don't wanna know. (She makes towards the door) Joe: That's the stupidest thing I've ever heard. Meredith: Bye Joe. MVO: In general... people can be categorized in one of two ways. (Emergency entrance) Paramedic: He was in the front of the train. MVO: Those who love surprises, and those who don't. (The interns and other doctors run up) MVO: I don't. (Derek finally enters Joe's, and looks for Meredith) Joe: Dude, you're late. TV: Once again, a massive train wreck occurred just outside of Seattle minutes ago.(The interns are changing into scrubs in the elevator) MVO: I've never met a surgeon that enjoys a surprise, because, as surgeons we like to be in the know. We have to be in the know. Because when we aren't, people die and lawsuits happen. Am I rambling? I think I'm rambling. (Exit elevator) Cristina (to George): I think I saw a pneumothorax. I hope I get a pneumothorax. (They start grabbing some yellow gowns putting them on except Meredith) Alex: Hey. Thought you weren't talking to me. Izzie: Thought you could use a friend, so I'm rising above.Alex: Why would you think that? Izzie: Um, because you freaked out in the elevator. Alex: I didn't freak out. Izzie: And missed your chance to perform open-heart surgery. Alex: O'Malley plugged the hole with his finger. Izzie (sighs): I thought you could use someone to talk to. Alex: Well, I don't. Izzie: To someone who actually cares ... Alex (interrupts): Yes, I get that, but don't ... (Bailey enters, still dressed in her dress and heels) George (in shock): Oh! Bailey: What are you looking at? (Bailey walks to Alex and hands him her jacket and purse) Bailey: Hey, you, go get me my damn shoes. Let's move, people. Meredith: Hello. I seem to be a little bit drunk. I was off duty. Bailey: So was I! (To the others) Anybody else half in the bottle? (They all shake their head no. George checks his breath to make sure) Bailey: All right then. Grey just stay out of the way. I'll deal with you later. The rest of you, stick with me and wait for your assignments. (Cristina moves behind to tie up the back of Bailey's gown) Now you get all aquiver at the sight of blood, and organs but it's gonna be a long night and you already tired. I don't want any mistakes. (Cristina is still tying up the gown) Bailey (to Cristina): Come on now! Cristina: I'm done. I'm done. (They enter the ER that is full of patients) Cristina: I'm so not tired anymore. George: Me neither. I'm not tired either. (Meredith sees Addison with a pregnant patient who is burned pretty badly and walks slowly to a wall and watches) Addison: I've got a 3rd trimester burn victim here Dr. Bailey and I'm gonna need some help. (Izzie, George & Cristina all put up their hand eagerly) Bailey: Ah. Izzie, go. (George and Cristina shoulders sag. Izzie is excited) Izzie: Yes! Have a nice nap. Addison (to patient): Have you had any contractions? (Tyler the scrub nurse walks into the pit still dressed in his casual clothes from the bar. He sees Meredith standing against the wall) Tyler: Oh hey. Joe told me to tell you that McSteamy came looking for you. Meredith (perks a bit at this news): You mean McDreamy. Joe said McDreamy came looking for me? Tyler: No. I'm pretty sure it was McSteamy. (Derek enters) George (to Cristina): Does that mean he picked her? Cristina: If it does, I just lost 50 bucks. (Paramedic rushes in holding a leg) Paramedic: Got the leg! (He holds up a severed leg. George and Cristina stare) Cristina (almost groans): I want the leg. (Tony a paramedic & Richard wheel in a guy who has a severed right leg through emergency double doors) Tony: He's lost a lot of blood at the scene. Pressure dressings applied. 2 large boar IVs started. Richard: Anything for the pain? Tony: Base ordered morphine. 5 mgs given so far. Richard: Dr. Bailey who you got? (Both George & Cristina put up their hands eagerly almost whacking Dr. Bailey) Bailey: Ah! Cristina. Go. Cristina: Yes! (She goes off running towards the severed leg guy. George slumps defeated) Richard: Rule out other injuries and book an O.R. (Cristina nods eagerly and starts wheeling of severed leg guy. Derek comes up to Richard) Derek: Dr. Webber! Richard: We have a train wreck Derek. We need all hands on deck. Now clear me for surgery or you're fired. Derek: Any headaches today? Richard: No! Derek: Dizziness? Nausea? Blurred vision? Richard: No! No! No and no. Now can you get out of my way? (Richard starts walking away) Derek: Fine. But I'm coming with you. (Richard gives Derek a look) Or I'm fired. Up to you. (He gestures fine but doesn't look happy and walks off down the hall. Derek follows making eye contact with Meredith as he passes her, nodding slightly) George comes up to Meredith) George: Was that a nod? Meredith: Yes. George: Do we know what it meant? Meredith: No. George (seeing another patient wheel by an intern): Am I invisible? MVO: Ok, so my point actually ... and I do have one. Has nothing to do with surprises or death or lawsuits or even surgeons. (Alex comes into the pit with Dr. Bailey's normal work shoes, which by the way don't look very practical. She puts them on, removing her heels) MVO: My point is this: whoever said what you don't know can't hurt you was a complete and total moron. Because for most people I know, not knowing is the worst feeling in the world. (Unbelievably two people from the wreck are sitting on a gurney together with a metal pole sticking through their abdomens. They are facing each other almost as if hugging. An older black man and young blond woman. Meredith sees this) MVO: Ok, fine, maybe it's the second worst. (Cut to trauma room 1 where the two people who have a pole through them are being checked on. Meredith is in there as well. A paramedic, Jill is outside talking to Dr. Burke and Dr. Bailey who are also amazed) Jill: His BP is looking steady at 90 over pal. She's had 2 hypotensive episodes to the low seventies. Burke: You couldn't get a saw in there? Jill: Not without moving them. Bailey: Which would have been a very bad idea. (Pan inside to Meredith looking in amazement at the pole people. The blonde woman, one of the pole duo, Bonnie sees Meredith's curiosity) Bonnie: Is this the craziest thing you ever seen? Meredith: Uh. ... Yeah. Bonnie: Yeah. Me too. (Dr. Bailey gives Meredith a look to stay away from the patients. Meredith scurries off to the side where George & Alex are) Jill: Ok, then. You guys got it from here? Bailey: Hey uh ... you were at the scene? Jill (nods): Won't be too bad for you. Lot of carnage. Not a lot of survivors. (She walks off. Bonnie sees Dr. Burke and Dr. Bailey talking and appears agitated) Burke: They're never gonna fit into CT. We're gonna be flying blind. Get x-rays and labs and page me the minute you're done. Bonnie (calls out): Excuse me! (Dr. Burke & Dr. Bailey walk into the trauma room) Burke: Hi. I'm Dr. Burke. You shouldn't turn your head. You want to try and move as little as possible. Bonnie: Oh ok. ... So are you gonna pull this pole out of us anytime soon? Tom: Touch uncomfortable. Burke (smiles): I'm sorry we can't until we get a better look on what's going on internally. But I assure you we will work as quickly as possible. Bonnie: Well, in that case, does anybody have a breath mint? (Dr. Burke smiles. Tom squints his eyebrows in question at her) Bonnie: For me. Not for you. (He smiles. She smiles back) Burke (whispers to Bailey): Get them going Bailey (nods): Uh O'Malley. Get them an X-ray. George: Reall... (He nods. He gestures to Meredith to tie his gown) Thanks. Bailey: Move them extremely carefully. George (whispers to Meredith): This never would've happened before the elevator. (Alex overhears and looks annoyed at this) Meredith: You go George. (George moves to the gurney. Dr. Bailey, Meredith & Alex walk out of the trauma room) Bailey: Alex, cover the E.R. You can do sutures while you get over your new found fear of scalpels. (Alex goes off) Meredith (smiling still drunk): That was mean. Even for you. Bailey (makes a face): You are drunk. Go, Go get yourself a banana bag IV and put it in your arm and then find me. Do not speak to any more patients. Do not practice any medicine. Meredith (gestures tipsy): Well should I just go home? Bailey: Well unless you drank the whole liquor bottle you'll be sober in a few hours. And the IV fluids will head off your hangover. Then you can assist with the many mangled victims you see spread out before you. Besides if I'm not going home, nobody's going home. (She walks off and mutters to herself) Bailey: 10 years of marriage and I didn't even get to finish my damn lobster. (Cut to George with other doctors wheeling Bonnie & Tom really slowly through the hallway to the X-ray lab) George: Well is there any one you'd like me to call? Tom: No they called my wife from the ambulance. Bonnie: And my fianc?. They're flying down from Vancouver together. Tom: Normally, Amanda would be a tad upset to find me pressed up against another woman. (Bonnie laughs) But in this case I think I'll get a pass. George: You two weren't traveling together? Bonnie: No. We just met. Tom: Bit of an awkward introduction. Bonnie: You have very nice pores. Tom (chuckles): Oh. Hurts to laugh. (There is large queue waiting to get x-rays done. George taps an intern with a patient in a wheelchair) George: Hey. Intern: Hey. (The intern recoils when he sees Tom & Bonnie) Whoa. You can go ahead. George: Oh. Thanks. (George gestures for doctors to move B&T. George moves onto the next in line a female blonde intern. He clears his throat behind her and she turns around and sees the pole people) Intern: Oh wow. George: Do you think uh I could ... Intern: Oh yeah go ahead. (They make it into the x-ray room 1) (Cut to Maternity hospital room where the burned pregnant women named Brooke is now in a hospital bed. Addison is viewing the machine for contractions. Izzie is treating the burns but keeps staring at Addison. Addison notice's this) Addison: Dr. Stevens, do you need something? Izzie: No. (She goes back to treating the burns) Brooke: Ow! Izzie (stops): Oh I'm sorry am I doing this ... Brooke: Ow! Oh. Ow. (She looks at Addison) Did ... was that a ...did I have ...? Addison (looking at the print out): Contraction. It was definitely a contraction. We need to book an OR (Izzie nods and heads off) Look you are in no shape to push and the baby is still in some distress. You're going to have to proceed with a C-section. Brooke: Ok. ... Ok but can we call a lawyer first? (Addison is confused) I don't have a will. And there's no father. And in case something happens to me ... Addison: There's no cause for a panic Brooke. We have some time, ok? Brooke: Ok. (Cut to Izzie walking through the E.R. ward. Alex watches her walk by. He is suturing the forehead of a woman named Mary. Her friend Yvonne is standing in front of her bed. Yvonne's mobile rings) Yvonne: Hello. Oh, oh, oh, no, no, no we fine. Yeah some redneck tried to out run the train. Honey the train slammed into his ass and then it rolled. Alex (to Mary): That hurt? (Mary mmm's no) Yvonne: No, no, no, no, no that dude is toast. Honey, him and about 200 other people. And Mary got her face all cut up. Alex: Hurt anywhere else? Mary (points to her abdomen): Here. A whole bunch of luggage when they hit the brakes just came flying at us. (Alex lifts up her gown and there is bruising there) Alex: Ok I'll take you for an x-ray. See if anything's broken. Any internal injuries. Mary: Ok. (Alex and scrubs nurse start moving Mary's gurney. Yvonne notices this) Yvonne: Yeah you know wait I'm going to have to call you back. (She hangs up her phone and calls out to Alex) Hey! Hey! Excuse me. Excuse me. Um, where you going? Alex: I'm taking your friend for an x-ray. Yvonne: Ah. (she chuckles) No offense little boy but uh you look like my oldest son. And he's nothing but trouble. Mary: Yvonne, shut up. Yvonne: What? I said no offense. I'm just saying are you sure you a doctor? (Alex looks peeved at this. Yvonne is interrupted by her phone ringing and she picks it up) Yvonne: Yeah. Oh, yeah, yeah, we fine. Yeah this redneck tried to outrun the train. (Alex and the nurse continue wheeling Mary away) (Cut to Izzie coming out a trauma room. She hears Meredith in the ER. behind some curtains going Ow) Meredith: Ow ... Ow ... Ow ... (Izzie pulls back the curtains and sees Meredith trying to insert an IV into her self) Izzie: What're you doing? Meredith: Trying to insert my banana bag. (Izzie smiles) Which sounds vaguely dirty but it isn't. Izzie (pulling the curtain closed): I can do it. (Izzie starts to putting in the IV for Meredith) Meredith:: So, how's going with Addison? Bad mood? Good mood? Yay my husband picked me mood? Izzie: Ah I think it's the more of the 'I hate the smell of charred flesh mood'. Meredith: Before you judge me. I know there was a train accident. People are very badly hurt. And that I'm a vapid narcissist when you mix me with alcohol. (Izzie smiles) In case you were wondering. I know that. Izzie: Well, for what it's worth, I take issue with her salmon colored scrubs. I mean what self respecting surgeon wears salmon colored scrubs? Meredith (nods): This is what I'm saying. Izzie: Yeah. (She chuckles and leaves) (Cut to the OR where Derek and Richard are repairing the nerves of the guy's leg. Cristina is off to the side cleaning the severed leg) Richard (calls out): Yang. How's that wound looking? Cristina: Pretty clean. Some dirt and gravel mostly. Richard (to Derek): This guy was lucky. It's a guillotine injury. We do this right he'll have full use of his leg. (To another doctor) Um more irrigation right there. (A pager goes off. There is a tray filled with various pagers. A doctor picks it up and reads it) Doctor: Dr. Shepherd. (Richard lifts his head up and starts blinking in the light like his head hurts. Derek notices this) Derek: It'll wait. Richard: Hmm. I'm fine Derek. Just adjusting to the light. Derek (shakes his head): I'm saying that there's no shame in taking a little more time off. Doesn't make you old or tired or rusty, it ... (Richard gives him a look) Yeah ok that came out wrong. Richard: You're the only attending neurosurgeon and you're obviously needed elsewhere. And I'm fine here. Doctor: Dr. Shepherd? (Derek nods at Richard and steps away from the surgery) Derek: Ok. Page me if you need me. (Derek leaves) Richard: When you finished cleaning that wound you can help me here Dr. Yang. (Cristina looks concerned about something, looking at the severed leg and then back at the surgery) Richard: Is the wound clean, Yang? Cristina: Yes sir. (She looks back at the severed leg) I ... but ... Richard: But what? (She looks back at Richard who speaks angrily) If your plan is to be a watchdog for Dr. Shepherd or if you think your job here is to baby-sit me then you can think again. I've been a surgeon longer than you've been breathing. And if I were not ready to be in this OR, I would say so. Is that understood? Cristina: Yes sir. Richard: Now do we have a problem Yang? Cristina: Uh yes! (He gives her look) No sir. I mean I'm thrilled to learn and I'm grateful to be here it's just (she glances back at the severed leg) that ah ... (she wheels over the severed leg) Sorry. His legs. (She lifts up the sheet covering the patient's intact leg) Cristina: They're both left. Richard (annoyed): Find the man's leg, Yang. Find it now. Cristina: Yes, sir. (She heads out) (Cut to the X-ray observation room. George & Dr. Bailey are standing looking at the scans. Dr. Burke is sitting on a chair looking at them on a computer screen. Meredith is just standing off to the side with her banana bag IV) George: Is, is it going straight through her spine? Bailey: It is. T8's completely crushed. (Derek walks in) Derek: Hey. (He notices Meredith with her bag) What happened? Meredith: Uh, tequila. (He nods) Bailey: I'm keeping an eye on her. (He nods again and then notices the x-rays) Derek: Look at this. These people are still alive? George: They're still making small talk. Bailey: Pole's tamponading the wound as far as we can see. Derek (looking at the x-ray): It's hitting the aorta. Burke: And look at him. It's right in line with his inferior vena cava. George: Is there anyway to operate without separating them? (Dr. Burke shakes his head) Derek: No. George: But if we move the poll ... Bailey: They'll both bleed out. Burke: What if we don't move the poll? What if we move one of the patients off the poll to get the saw in there? Then we can hold the pole steady in the other one. Move it very slowly and repair the damage as we go. George: Who? Which would you move? (Derek glances at Meredith who stares back at him) Burke: With her aortic injuries, her chances of survival are extremely slim no matter what we do. But if we move her, we have a real shot of saving him. Derek: Well I could argue since her injuries are so extensive we should move him. Give her the best shot we can. Meredith: So basically whoever you move doesn't stand a chance? (They all glance at her unsettled) So how do you choose? How do you decide who gets to live? (Outside SGH) (Hallway) (Cut to Derek and Burke walking down the hallway talking. Bailey and Meredith are walking behind them a few feet a way) Burke: We have to make this call soon if we want our shot of saving either one of them. Derek: I'd like to examine them before I weigh in. Burke: I'll wait for your page. Derek: Thank you. (Dr. Burke walks off. Derek turns around and attempts to talk to Meredith) Derek: Dr. Grey ... Bailey (interrupts): Uh Dr. Grey needs to get herself a blood alcohol test before practicing any medicine tonight. Meredith: What? No. I'm totally fine. Look. (She starts putting her arms out and then bringing her finger tips to her nose. Derek looks amused. Bailey gives him a look) Totally fine. Derek (to Bailey): Right, ok. (He wanders off) Meredith: I'm fine. Bailey: Regretting that last shooter about now aren't you? (Cut to Cristina rummaging through an ambulance outside, tearing it apart) Jill the paramedic: What are you doing in here? Cristina: Uh the leg you brought in with the amputee... Jill: I didn't bring in an amputee. Cristina: Ok well uh one of you did and it's ah... Jill (chuckles interrupting): Because all paramedics look alike to you, right ... Doctor? Cristina: Ok, really, ah um I can not straddle another giant ego right now. I'm already doing the splits so I need a right leg, right now, or the chief of surgery is going to take away my pretty blue scrubs. Jill: When the train de-railed it hit an overpass. The roof of the dining car was sheared off and it sliced through a passenger car. There were multiple decapitations. Your guy can live without his leg. Cristina: This is so not about the leg. Or the guy. But thank you. (She starts walking back into the hospital but turns around sarcastic) For all that you do. Really. Thanks. (Cut back to ER ward where Yvonne is still on the phone being annoying. Alex is treating a pregnant woman named Jana in a neck brace who is in the bed next to Mary. Alex annoyed closes though curtain in Yvonne's face so he doesn't have to see her) Alex: All right. Scars shouldn't be too bad. Jana: Can you tell me? My friend ... she's pregnant too. She was put in a different ambulance. She was burnt. Do you know where she is? Alex: If she's not down here she should be up in maternity. Jana: Ok. I need to see her. (Jana starts getting out of her hospital bed) Alex: Hold on. We're not finished here. We still have to do a full check. Jana: My baby's fine. I can feel her kicking. I gotta see Brooke. (Jana starts walking off with her IV) Alex (walking quickly after her): Uh wait you can't just leave like that. Just wait ... come here, come here. (Camera pans back through a window to an adjacent hallway that can look into the ER ward. George and Meredith are sitting below the window) Meredith: Ow. (George is giving an IV to take a sample of Meredith's blood) Meredith: Ow. Shh. George: Sorry. Meredith: So you operated on a heart earlier George. You think you could draw a little blood. George: I rocked that heart. Meredith: Yeah you did. George: I think I'm strung out on the scalpel. Meredith (smiling): Nothing wrong with that. George: So any news? About ... Meredith: No. I can't read him. George: You know, I think, I think it's pretty amazing you even gave him the choice. And I think for what it's worth I think he's crazy if he doesn't pick you. (Cristina comes up hurriedly up to them) Cristina: Please tell me you've seen a right leg. A cleanly severed right leg? George: No. (Cristina hurries off) Meredith: How weird is this job? George: Weird. (Cut to Jana walking fast into Brooke's maternity room. Addison is in there. Izzie is outside at the nurse's station) Jana: Brooke! Brooke: Jana? (Jana walks up to Brooke and they smile) Thank god. (Alex walks in after Jana. Addison comes to the door to speak to him. Izzie walks up to the door behind Alex) Addison: Dr. Karev? Alex: I couldn't stop her ... Addison (cuts him off): She was on the train? Alex: Yeah, yes. Addison (slightly angry): You did an ultrasound? (Alex is silent) Cleared her C-spine? Is there any reason you can think that this patient should be wandering around the hospital unattended? Alex: She's not unattended. I came up with her. She's, she's ... Addison (interrupts angry): You can leave now. ... Dr. Karev. (Alex walks off upset. Addison walks up to Izzie) Addison: Irresponsible. Even for an intern. (Izzie gives her a look) What you disagree? Izzie: She wanted to see her friend. I mean what was he supposed to do tackle her? Addison: Dr. Stevens, why don't you get our new patient into a bed? Shall we? (Izzie nods and they walk to Brooke & Jana) (Cut to a trauma room where Derek is testing to see if Bonnie has any feeling in her feet) Derek: Can you feel that Miss Krasnoff? Bonnie: Hmm. You're a cute Doctor. Cute doctors get to call me by my first name. Derek (smiling): Bonnie? Bonnie (smiles): Mmm. Derek: Ok, Bonnie. Do you feel that Bonnie? Bonnie: Can I feel what? Oh well I guess that's a no. (George enters the room) George: Excuse me, Dr Shepherd? Derek: Yes? George: I got the labs. Derek: Oh great. Thank you. (He takes the labs of George and hands him a patient's chart) Here you go. Hold that please. (He looks over the labs) Derek: Could you try to wiggle your toes Mr. Maynard? (Tom wiggles his toes but due to his position can't see) Tom: Are they moving? Derek: Yes, they are. Tom (half chuckles happy): Oh good. That's good right? Derek: Yes it is. Yes. It is. Bonnie: What about me? Are mine moving? (Derek moves to have a closer look. They're not moving. George also sees this) Derek: Yes, they are. Bonnie (smiles in relief): Yay me. (George looks at Derek questioningly, but Derek says nothing) Tom: Dr ... ah Shepherd is it? Derek: Yes it is. Tom: Dr. Shepherd ... Bonnie and I ... are we gonna live through this? Bonnie: Now that's just morose Tom. Tom: I'm sorry dear. (To Derek) ... Doctor? Derek: We're gonna do everything we can Mr. Maynard. (Cut back to OR with Richard and the amputee. Cristina comes in with a red garbage bag with a leg inside it. She hands it over to another Doctor) Richard: About time Yang. I was starting think here my work would be wasted. Cristina: So sorry. It wasn't easy to find. I took the liberty of checking the wound and it's very clean cut. Well preserved. Doctor: Ah, Dr. Webber ... (She shows him the amputated right leg. He looks at it. It's a shaven leg with red nail polish on the toe nails, a female leg. Richard looks annoyed and looks over at Cristina who is getting re-scrubbed up) Cristina: Sir? Richard: Notice anything else about that leg? Anything other than that very clean cut. (Cristina looks confused) Did you happen to notice for example that it was shaved recently? And manicured? (Angry now) Take a look at my patient, Dr. Yang! Does he look like a man who woke up and shaved one of his legs this morning? Cristina (backing out of the O.R slowly): No. I'll go find the um right ... the right, right leg. The right, right ... Richard (interrupts): Thank you! (Cut to George & Derek looking at the pole people's scans again. Dr. Burke & Bailey walk in) Burke: Where are we? Derek: You were right. Her vitals are erratic. Pulse is weak. Spine severed. I was hoping it didn't hit from that angle. It just can't miss the aorta. Bailey: What about him? Think he can live? Derek: He's got better odds. Bailey (to George): Alright. Let OR 1 know we're coming. (George starts walking off) Burke: Oh and O'Malley. (George stops) Close off the gallery. We don't need an audience for this. George: She's cracking jokes. How do you tell somebody that she's gonna be dead in a few minutes when she's sitting up cracking jokes? (They all look at George sad. George walks off) (Cut back to ER ward where Alex is walking to a talk to a nurse. He is interrupted by Yvonne who is sitting down next to Mary, lying her head on Mary's bed) Yvonne: Excuse me. Is there any chance that we can get out sometime this year? Alex: Well the labs backed up (Yvonne rolls her eyes) and so is radiology. Can't discharge your friend until I'm certain she doesn't have any internal injuries. (Yvonne's mobile starts ringing again and she answers. Alex starts talking with the nurse) Yvonne: Hello? Yeah we still here. Cause the Doctor is friggin useless (Alex looks over at this) Mmm hmm. (Alex walks off and passes Cristina who's at the corner of a hallway on a telephone) Cristina: I realize you're dealing with a lot of carnage. I'm, I'm asking if you could maybe ... sift through some that carnage and find it ... (there's a click noise and then dial tone) Hello? (She hangs up the phone frustrated) Damn it. (Dr. Burke up to her in the hallway) Burke: Cristina. You paged me? Cristina (upset): If I don't find this leg, the chief is gonna cut me from this program. And I cannot go back home, Burke. It is too sunny in Los Angeles. It's sunny everyday! Burke: And you paged me because? Cristina (loud): I need you to help me find the leg! I checked the board. You're not in surgery right? (Burke looks confused) You're my boyfriend. I mean... I know I don't have much experience with this kind of thing but (Dr. Burke tries not to smile) aren't boyfriends supposed to help in situations like this. Burke (serious): Cristina, when we're on duty I can't be your boyfriend. Cristina: Okay, so ah when we're on duty I can have sex with some one else? Burke: Dr. Yang. I'm walking away now. (He starts walking off) Cristina: Fine. Fine! But when the chief cuts me, you might re-think this! (Cut to Alex & Meredith standing at on open doorway facing each other resting against the edges outside the Blood labs) Meredith: Addison yelled at you in front of a patient? Alex: She didn't exactly yell. (Meredith just looks at him expectantly. He sighs) Fine. She's Satan's whore. Meredith: Thank you. ... So did you yell back? Alex: No. Meredith: Dude, you lost your mojo. Alex: Excuse you? Meredith: I was trying to talk boy. Alex (frustrated): O'Malley plugs a hole with his finger and everyone walks around like he's some kind of hero. I have one off day. Meredith: You chickened out. Alex (chuckles): I hesitated briefly. Meredith: Why didn't you kiss Izzie? Alex (stops smiling): And now I'm leaving. (He moves to walk off but Cristina comes running up to them upset) Cristina: It's not in the morgue. I've looked in the ambulances and the E.R. How's one bloody hairy leg gonna destroy my career? (She runs off. Meredith looks at Alex as if to say 'what was that?')Lab Tech (from Blood Lab bench): Dr. Karev. (Alex wanders over, takes the labs and starts walking off) Meredith: I hope you find your mojo, Alex. I find you disturbing without it. Alex (calls back): Me too. (Meredith leans back against the doorway and hits her head) Meredith: Ow. (Trauma room) (Bailey, George & Derek are in there with Bonnie & Tom who are looking apprehensive) Derek: This is hard, because your body is in a certain amount of shock. It's preventing you from feeling pain. (Burke walks in) Feeling the extent of your injuries. Bonnie (softly): Dr. Shepherd. We have a metal pole cutting a path through our insides. I don't know about Tom here, but I didn't expect to walk out of here anytime soon. (George looks upset) So ... whatever it is you have to say just please ... say it. Derek: Okay Bonnie. (he nods slightly) ... In order to operate on Mr. Maynard, we have to separate you two. In order to do that, we have to move you backwards off the pole. Tom: Can't you just pull the pole out of both of us? (Derek shakes his head no slightly at Bonnie) Burke: Well if we did that, you would both start bleeding very quickly. Too quickly. Right now the pole is plugging the wounds. Once removed, the organs will shift and there's a great deal of damage. Bonnie (trying not to cry): So if you move me, I'll die? (There's a little bit of silence) Derek: We're gonna do everything we can to ... (Bonnie starts crying softly) Tom (interrupts): No. No. If anyone body has to go it should be me. You just move ... Burke (interrupts): No. Mr. Maynard ... Mr. Maynard your injuries are less extensive. (Dr. Shepherd takes Bonnie's hand and rubs it soothingly) If we pull the pole from you as we operate around it, we have a better chance at repairing the damage. Tom: It's not right. It's not fair. Bonnie (smiling sadly): Shh Tom. It's not fair either way. .... Is ah, is my Danny ... is he here yet? George: There are delays at the airport, ah the storm. Bailey: Uh we could wait but ah the longer we do the higher the risk of infection for the ... Bonnie (interrupts sad): No, no. This is better. Huh. Danny, he wouldn't understand. I've had a couple of hours to, you know, (She takes a deep breath) process all of this. But if, if he had to see me ... talk to me like this ... well, I just think it would be too hard. (Cut to Brooke & Jana's maternity hospital room. Brooke is lying on her side in bed and Jana is sitting next to her on a chair doing deep breathing with her. Izzie is administering an injection on Brooke with Addison watching) Addison: Right there. In between the vertebral spaces. Don't be shy about pressure. Jana (to Brooke): That's good. You are doing so good. (Patricia, Richard's assistant pops into the room with some clip boards) Patricia: Somebody called for a notary? Brooke: I asked for a lawyer. Patricia: I couldn't get one at this time of night but the hospital has pretty standard forms. It just says in the case of death or permanent vegetative state, that your child will remain the custody of ... and then we'll put her name in.Jana: Wait, uh what? (To Addison) Who's dying here? Addison: There's some danger. With any surgery, there's danger. But with the trauma of Brooke's burns there's an additional risk of shock. She just wants to be certain. Jana: That's ridiculous. (To Brooke) You're being ridiculous. You're gonna be fine, do you hear me? Brooke: I hear you but we still have to sign the forms unless you want our son to end up with my mom. (Jana takes the forms of Patricia and hands some to Brooke. They start signing them) Izzie: How long have you two been together? Brooke: Since third grade. Jana: We're not lovers. We're best friends. We just wanted our kids to have two parents. So we got a sperm donor. Addison: The same donor? So you're babies are brother and sister? (Jana nods) Patricia: Oh how cool is that. (Izzie and Addison smile) Izzie: It's ah ... wow. (Jana's water breaks) Jana: Wet. Izzie: What? Patricia (looking down): Oh. Jana: I'm wet. Izzie: Oh god. Jana: I think my water just broke. (Cut to Alex in ER ward. He walks up to Mary's bed. Yvonne is still sitting in the chair and resting her head on Mary's bed but looks asleep) Alex: Good news. You've a got a broken rib but we're gonna give you some pain killers and uh (Yvonne's really annoying ring tone starts going off again) after that you should be good to go. Mary: Thank you. (The phone continues to ring but Yvonne doesn't move to answer it) Yvonne, answer your phone. (Alex looks annoyed but continues to look at his chart. Mary concerned sits up) Yvonne. Yvonne? (She gently shakes her but Yvonne falls to the floor of the hospital floor unconscious) Mary: Yvonne! (Alex rushes to Yvonne's side checking her pulse) Alex: Code blue! I need some help over here. Mary: Yvonne! (Cut to a trauma room where Yvonne is lying on a hospital gurney. Alex is performing CPR. A nurse and ER resident is also there. Mary is standing at the door panicked) Alex: Push one of epi. Holds CPR. Nurse: Her abdomen is distended. It's rock solid. She's lost too much blood. She's been bleeding for hours. Mary: There's no blood. She's not bleeding. Nurse: She was bleeding internally. Alex: She didn't say anything. She wasn't ... she wasn't even a patient. ... I didn't know. Nurse: Dr. Karev, she's gone. Mary: No. No. No. (Alex stops CPR) No, no, no! Yvonne! Alex: I'm sorry. Time of death, 2:51 Mary: No, no, no, no, no. No! (Alex takes off his yellow gown and walks out) Try again. Try again. (Seattle Scenes) (SGH, HOSPITAL ROOM)(Cut to Brooke & Jana both lying in hospital beds next to each other. Jana is breathing fast. Izzie is looking over a chart. Addison and OB resident is there as well) Addison: Jana, this our OB resident Dr. Hoffman. She's going to be taking care of you from here. Jana: Uh huh. Dr. Hoffman: You're doing great Jana. Just keep breathing. I'm gonna check your cervix now. Addison: Brooke we've booked an O.R but they're not gonna hold it for long so we need to go now. Brooke: Right now? But we're supposed to be together. We took classes. Addison: I'm sorry but we can't wait. Jana: That's ok Brookie. You go have your C-section and enjoy those drugs this is already not fun for my vagina. Addison (motions for Izzie to start moving Brooke's bed): Dr. Stevens? Brooke (indicating Izzie): No if I have to go, she has to stay. Someone has to stay with Jana. Please. Addison: Brooke uh Dr. Stevens is a surgeon but I'm gonna find you some ... Izzie (interrupts): It's ok. I'll stay. Addison: Ok. (Brooke smiles her thanks to Izzie. Addison starts moving Brooke's bed out of the room) Jana: Brookie, you stay alive ok? Brooke: You too. (Cut to Alex pacing outside the entrance to the ER upset, frustrated and angry. He sits on a bench against the wall) Alex: Damn it! (He puts his head in hands. Stan the paramedic walks up to him with a plastic bag) Stan: Hey Doc! Alex (angry yells): What?!? Stan: Easy killer. Jill said you guys were freaking out looking for this leg. Alex (looks at the leg suddenly excited): Thank you. (Alex takes the leg and heads back into the hospital) Stan: No problem. Alex: Right on. (Cut to OR where Cristina walks back in without the leg looking resigned) Cristina: Chief Webber. I'm extremely sorry, I tried to look everywhere, but I ... (She looks at the surgery and sees that the leg is there and being re-attached) Oh you found the leg? Alex (turns around from the surgery): I found the leg. Richard: You missed out on this one Yang but I'm sure they could use a hand down in the ER (Cristina looks shocked and pissed at Alex) Karev & I can handle it from here. (Cristina leaves the OR) (Cut to OR. where Bonnie & Tom are being prepped for their surgery. There are many doctors there as well) Bonnie (speaks very softly): Can I ask you a question? Tom: Mmm hmm. Bonnie: Do you believe in heaven? Tom: I do. ... Don't you? Bonnie (teary): I want too. Tom: Bonnie...I just wanna say ... Bonnie (interrupts whispering): Shh. I know. I know. (Dr. Adams & Derek walk into the OR) Derek: This is Dr. Adams, our anesthesiologist. When you're ready, he's gonna put you to sleep. Bonnie: So it's not gonna hurt? Dr. Adams: It won't hurt a bit. Bonnie: Good. That's good. ... Dr. Shepherd? Derek: Yes? Bonnie: You're gonna be the one to talk to my Danny, right? Derek: Yes. Bonnie: Ok. Derek: Ok. ... What would you like me to tell him? (Derek leans in to hear what Bonnie wants him to say. Camera pans across through window into cleansing/sterilizing room. George, Dr. Bailey & Dr. Burke are getting washed up and looking into the OR) Bailey: Why do I feel we're about to kill this girl? (Meredith walks into the room) Meredith: Dr. Bailey, my labs are in. Bailey: Sober?Meredith: Can I scrub in? Burke: Do it fast. (Dr. Burke leaves and Meredith starts prepping herself. Dr. Bailey leaves as Derek enters the room. George looks at this and looks at Meredith) Meredith (whispers): George! George: Right. (He leaves the room and heads into the OR) Meredith: Hey. Derek: Hi. (There's a little silence) Derek: You know, uh, I went to the bar. Meredith: I heard. (He half nods wryly. Meredith stands waiting for his decision but he doesn't say anything) Derek: You take some aspirin with the banana bag? Helps with the hangover. (Meredith nods slightly. Derek continues getting ready and not really making eye contact with Meredith. Realization dawns on Meredith) Meredith: Oh. You're staying with her. Derek: Yeah, she's my wife. Bailey (calls from the OR): Dr. Shepherd, she's crashing. (Derek runs into the O.R. Meredith stands there sad) (Cut to Derek entering OR) Derek: What happened? Dr. Adams: I just put them under. Derek: Pole must've shifted. Dr. Adams (defensive): I barely touched her. This isn't my fault. Burke: It's nobody's fault. We'll need to remove her now if we're going to have a chance. Dr. Adams: How are we going to do this? Burke: Team 1 continues, stabilize his body. Team 2 move her back and let's get the saw in there. This has to be fast and smooth, people. O'Malley you hold the pole in place. Whatever you do, don't pull on it, don't let it move. On the count of 3. 1, 2 ... (Cut to Izzie helping Jana push out her baby during labor.) Izzie: 3! That's great. That's great. (Jana breathes gasping) Take another breath. 1, 2, ... (Cut to Addison in an OR doing the C-section on Brooke) Addison: He's wedged up under her ribs. We're going to have to pull him out. On 3. 1, 2 ... (Cut back to Bonnie & Tom's OR surgery. Bonnie is being slid off the pole slowly and placed onto an operating table. A doctor gets a saw and starts cutting through the pole. Scene switches to Tom now on operating table as well) Dr. Adams: He's stable. (Camera pans to Bonnie's operation where Derek, Dr. Burke, Bailey, O'Malley and Meredith are.) Burke: Let's start with her and we can see what we can do. Scalpel. Bailey: Uh Grey. Get in here and help re-tract. Burke: Re-tractor. Derek: Richardson Retractor. Burke: I'm in. Derek: Quick please. Give me some sponges. Sponges. Burke: I'm in.Derek: Lap sponges. Hade me the cautery.Burke (shakes his head): Her aorta is shredded. She's gonna bleed out. (Bonnie's monitor starts beeping faster) Doctor: Got no rhythm. Dr. Adams (from other surgery): Doctors. He's losing pressure. Burke: He's bleeding. Derek: Let's go. (They all leave the Bonnie's table except for Meredith who is still holding the retractor in Bonnie's chest) Burke: Everybody change gloves. Meredith (upset): What about her? We can't just abandon her. (The others are switching gloves and starting on Tom's operation) We can't just abandon her! Burke: I'm going in. Extend the sternum. Scalpel. (The others have now started on Tom. Meredith starts trying to revive Bonnie's heart by hand. George at the other surgery notices Meredith is still there) Bailey: Lets go Dr. Grey. George: Meredith. (Meredith continues pumping Bonnie's heart) Bailey: Dr. Grey! George: Meredith! Meredith (cries out): What about her?!? We can not just abandon her! We have an obligation! (Derek notices but continues surgery on Tom. George looks confused at Meredith's behavior. Dr. Bailey heads over to Meredith) Bailey (trying to stop Meredith): Meredith, come on'. There was too much damage. There was never anything we could do. We have to let her go. (Meredith looks at Dr. Bailey shocked & upset. The monitor has flat lined) Bailey: Time of death 3.49. (Meredith just stands next to Bonnie's bed despondent) (Seattle scenes) (Maternity room) (Izzie is watching over Jana who is in bed. Addison walks in) Addison: Morning. Izzie: How's Brooke? Addison: She's good. Izzie: And the baby? Addison: He came through, too. (They walk out of the room to the nurse's station) Addison: So have you made a decision yet, Dr. Stevens? Izzie: I'm sorry? Addison: Whether or not you're going to ... hate me? (Izzie trying to put a pen in her pocket looks up at this) You're Meredith's friend. I'm the wicked witch who came in and ruined her life and cheated on doctor ... wait what is it that you guys call him? Izzie (uncomfortable): McDreamy. Addison: Right. God, doesn't that embarrass him? Izzie: Yeah. I think it does. Addison: Yeah well by all rights, you should hate me. Izzie: I guess. Addison: Except that I'm going to be staying in town for a while. Izzie: You are. Addison: Yes. And you show a real gift with my specialty. And I have a lot to teach if you wanna learn. ... So? Izzie (shrugs even more uncomfortable): So? Addison: So, when you decide how important it is for you to hate me, let me know. (Addison walks off) (Cut to a waiting room where Derek & Dr. Bailey are talking with a young man, Danny, Bonnie's fianc?. George & Meredith at a nurse's station watch from afar) Danny: Did she ah ... did she suffer? Derek: No. Her injuries prevented her from ... no, she wasn't in any pain. Danny: Good. That's ...Derek (difficulty speaking): She asked me ah to... tell you that ... she wanted you to know, that if love were enough ... that if love were enough that she'd still be here with you. (Danny nods slightly. Meredith walks off. George looks on after Meredith) MVO: As surgeons, there are so many things we have to know. (Cut to the guy with severed leg, now re-attached being wheeled out of the OR Alex and Richard follow) Richard: Fine work, Dr. Karev. Alex: Thank you, sir. (Richard pats him on the back) MVO: We have to know we have what it takes. (Cut to Jana & Brooke's room. Jana is sitting on a chair rocking and feeding her baby with a bottle. Addison lift's Brooke's baby out his bed and holds him near Brooke. Izzie watches smiling) MVO: We have to know how to take care of our patients. (Cut to Tom in a hospital room sleeping. Dr. Burke is talking to his wife, Amanda who is watching over Tom) Burke: Tom is doing just fine. (Amanda hugs Dr. Burke in relief and thanks) (Cut to Dr. Bailey & Derek standing alone in an elevator. Derek looks very upset. Bailey notices this and pulls the elevator stop button) MVO: And how to take care of each other. (Derek walks to the back of the elevator, cries a little and gathers himself together. He walks back to stand next to Bailey) Bailey: Ok? Derek: Yeah. (She pushes back the stop button and the elevator starts again. The elevator opens and they both walk out going in different directions) (Cut to the staff locker room. Meredith sits on a bench despondent. Izzie sits next to her. George closing his locker sits next to Izzie quiet. Alex pulls on his white coat and heads to the door) MVO: Eventually we even have to figure out... how to take care of ourselves. (Cristina walks in as Alex reaches the door. She gives Alex a hard look. He just walks out the door. Meredith looks up at Cristina silently) MVO: As surgeons we have to be in the know. (Cristina tying up her hair looks at Meredith slowly understanding what's happened. She sits in between Izzie & Meredith looking at Meredith comfortingly) MVO: But as human beings, sometimes it's better to stay in the dark. (Cut to Addison walking out of the SGH with Derek. She takes his arm in hers) MVO: Because in the dark, there maybe fear... (Cut back to the staff locker room, where they all sit quiet and exhausted. The door opens. Meredith looks up hopefully.) MVO: ... but there's also hope. (Dr. Bailey enters. Dr. Bailey sees them all looking tired. She's takes a nicer tone than normal) Bailey: Better get cleaned up. Rounds. 5 minutes. (She heads out of the room and they all get up starting to get ready for a new day) 2x07: Something to Talk AboutOriginal Airdate: 11/6/2005Written by: Stacy McKeeDirected by: Adam Davidson(Seattle Scenes) (MEREDITH'S TOWN HOUSE)(Opens with Meredith lying in bed) MVO: Communication. It's the first thing we really learn in life. (Cut to Meredith walking out the door of her house. Cut to Meredith driving down the highway to work. Cut to Staff Locker Room. A bunch of interns are gathered dressing and talking about Meredith) Intern: She didn't even know he was married. I mean, his wife just shows up and he dumps her. I heard she flipped out. Intern: What does she expect? She got what she deserved. Dating an attending! Intern: Dating Mc Dreamy. Have you seen his hair? No guy is that perfect. Intern: I think it's kinda sad. She has to work here. With him. With them. Everyone knows. (Camera pans across to the other side of the lockers where Meredith is listening to them despondently) MVO: Funny thing is once we grow up, learn our words and really start talking; the harder it becomes to know what to say or how to ask for what we really need. (Cut to a therapy session where Addison & Derek are receiving marriage counseling) Therapist: What do you ah need to make this marriage work? Derek: I need her to move to Seattle. Addison: That's just ah ... Therapist (interrupts): Addison, what do you need? Addison: I need him to stop talking to Meredith. Derek: Ah uh I work with her! Addison: You want me to pick up my entire practice and move here? Fine! I want you to give up your girlfriend. Derek: I did give up my girlfriend. Okay you wanted me to take you back, I took you back here in Seattle. Addison: See once again it's all about what he wants. Derek: Okay she's not listening to me. I'm not gonna move back to Manhattan. I'm not the same person you're used to. Addison (interrupts): I know you're a flannel wearing, wood chopping fisherman. I get it! Derek: Oh that's just great. I'm not gonna talk to her anymore if she's gonna behave like this. (A timer dings) Addison: Fine! Therapist: Sorry guys. Times up. Good progress. (They both look at him disbelievingly) (Cut to George, Cristina & Izzie waiting at a nurse's station for Bailey for rounds) George: Well we have to do something. Meredith's become like an exhibit. (Cristina groans) Like the ... (to Izzie) hey. Like a zoo animal, like that rare panda that everyone stares at. Izzie: Please don't say that to her face. I think that panda died alone. (Cristina chuckles) George: This just could just as easily be you, if people knew about you and (he mouths silently) Burke. Cristina: You take that back. George: No. I'm just saying we should do something to cheer her up. Izzie: Don't worry about it. Cristina: It's under control. George: Wait, what do you guys have going on? Cristina & Izzie: Nothing. George: What? (Bailey & Meredith come up together to the nurse's station) Bailey: Where's Karev? Izzie: Probably off somewhere, not kissing somebody. Bailey: Let's go O'Malley. (They start walking off. Cristina, Izzie & Meredith follow a few feet behind them. Meredith has a funny look on her face) Cristina: Ah hmm. Hey so um after rounds we have something to show you. Izzie (looking at Meredith closely): Mer? Meredith, can you hear us? Cristina: She's not deaf. Izzie: Well, she looks weird. Cristina: Well what did you expect? Derek didn't pick her, she's gone mental. Izzie: Meredith have you gone mental? Meredith: I have not gone mental. Cristina: See, okay she's fine. (Excited) We have something to show you. So whatever you do, do not get assigned to a surgery this morning. (They walk into an elevator, except for Meredith who sees Derek & Addison walk out of the elevator next to theirs. Meredith stares at them. A group of guys point and look at Meredith. Cristina comes out & takes Meredith into the elevator) Cristina (to the guys): Yeah? Mind your own business. (Cut to a patient's room. An elderly woman named Kimberley Griswold is lying on a hospital bed. Her husband is rushing around doing little things for her. Cristina, George, Izzie, Bailey & Burke are there) Cristina: Mrs. Ah Kimberley Griswold. History of heart disease and multiple surgeries. In for a beating heart quadruple CABG. (Alex walks in late) Izzie: You're late. Burke: Yes Karev, nice of you to join us. (He gives Alex a look and then returns to the chart) Why keep the heart beating Dr. Yang? Cristina (looks at Izzie and then back at Burke): I don't know. Bailey: What? Cristina (very forced sounding): I have no idea. (Bailey looks peeved and looks at Izzie) Izzie: Oh I don't know either. Just don't. Meredith: Because of the ... (Izzie elbows her and gives her a look) ... ow... Burke: Anyone else? Alex: Stress reduction because of the previous surgeries ... Burke (interrupts): O'Malley. Alex: I know, I know the answer. Burke: I'm asking O'Malley. George: Scar tissue is too deep. Heart's too weak to start up again so you only immobilize the portion you're working on and you leave the rest of the heart on its own. (He gives a bewildered look to the girls. Alex leaves the room) Burke: Welcome to the case. George: Thank you. Izzie (whispers to the 2 girls): Okay move. Mrs. Griswold: What is that? Mr. Griswold: PJs. (Cut to outside of the hospital room in the hallway. Alex speaks to Bailey. Meredith, Izzie & Cristina huddle off to the side, whispering quietly) Alex: That is unfair and you know it. He's punishing me for the elevator. Bailey (angry): He's punishing you because you were late for rounds. You wanna tell me why you were late? (Alex is silent) Dr. Shepherd needs somebody on his nerve case today. Go. (Alex walks off. Bailey turns around annoyed to face the 3 girls) Bailey: And you three! Brush up on how to not embarrass me in front of the attendings or I'll see to it that your hearts stop beating. We clear? (They murmur their apologies and scurry off. Bailey looks amazed at their behavior) (Cut to Cristina, Meredith & Izzie walking down a stair way) Meredith: What is going on? Izzie: We found a case. Meredith: You stole a case? Cristina: Borrowed from psych. Okay the prelims on this thing is totally unprecedented. Izzie (smiling): And we found it. Meredith: Stole it. Cristina: Found. Stole. Hijacked. Whatever. Okay, Meredith behind this door is the coolest medical mystery I have ever seen. (They walk into a new hallway and to outside a patient's room) Cristina: Now you can either walk away guilt free ... Meredith: Mmm Hmm. Cristina: ... or walk through this door, risk your place in the program which could possibly lead to spending the rest of your life serving fries in bad clothing. (Meredith gives her a look. Izzie looks excited) So are you in? Meredith: Hell yeah. (Izzie knocks on the door and they enter) Cristina: Mr. Herman. (The patient is hidden from view by a curtain) Shane: Oh no please call me Shane. (He is sitting on the bed edging his way across slowly with his back to the girls) I gotta hit the can, again! (Cristina shuts the door behind them) Seems like I gotta go every 30 seconds these days. Meredith (whispers): It's just a guy. Cristina: Wait for it. Izzie: Wait. Shane: I sure am glad to be off that psych floor. Meredith: What's so special? Cristina (mutters): Wait for it. (Shane has a hard time standing up. Meredith looks at him confused. He starts walking towards them to the bathroom) Shane: I'm not nuts. I'm just pregnant. (Camera pans down to show Shane's very swollen, pregnant like stomach. Meredith looks stunned. Cristina & Izzie giving her knowing looks) (Outside SGH) (Shane's room) (Cut to Meredith, Izzie & Cristina helping Shane into his hospital bed) Shane: I was fine and then last month, huge belly. My doctor just kept telling me I was gaining weight with my wife. She's due on the 30th. It's her first. (Izzie & Cristina start checking out his stomach. Prodding it and putting a stethoscope to it) Meredith: Congratulations. Cristina: The admitting intern shipped him off to Psych. Barely did a physical. (to Izzie) Feel that. Izzie: It's not fluid. There's something in there. Shane: Yeah no joke there's something in there. I've been able to feel it getting bigger and bigger, growing in my ... you know ... my womb. (The girls share looks) Yeah I know I sound crazy. I do ... but I can prove it. (Debbie a middle aged nurse comes into the room) Debbie: This room is supposed to be unoccupied. Whose patient is this? Cristina & Izzie (point at each other): Hers. (Shane looks confused) Debbie: Who transferred him? I don't have any paperwork, any transfer documents. Cristina (dismissive): Give me a break. We shuffle rooms all the time. You know if ah we need a bedpan changed, um we'll let you know. (She grabs a curtain and closes to conceal Shane) Debbie: Okay doctor you do that. (Debbie leaves) Meredith: Okay where's his chart? (Cristina & Izzie look at each other) Don't tell me you don't have his chart. You steal a patient and you don't take the chart. Cristina (to Izzie): That was your job. Izzie: Yeah I was on lookout. (Cut to Psych office. An Indian psych intern, Raj is sitting there looking through some files. Meredith comes to the window and knocks on it. He looks confused and opens the window for Meredith) Meredith: How you doing? You good? (He looks thoroughly confused. Behind him at the same time at the doorway, Izzie & Cristina attempt to steal Shane's patient chart) Meredith: You look good. Come on we're friends. Raj: What's my name? (Meredith looks to his name badge, but he covers it quickly with his hand) Meredith: Um. Alright. So I don't know your name. (He turns around suspiciously but Izzie & Cristina duck out of view) Meredith: It's not like we can't talk. (He turns back to face Meredith) You don't have to be a surgeon for me to talk to you, you know. Raj (sarcastic): Really? Meredith: Really. Raj: Cause I thought you only talk to attendings. (Cristina grabs the chart & runs out. Raj closes the window in front of Meredith's face) (Cut to patient room where a young asian girl named Nicole is sitting in a wheelchair. Her parents are with her. Dr. Shepherd & Alex are in the room as well) Derek: Now Nicole you've been having problems with spasticity? Nicole: Mom? Mrs. Verma: She's says the spasms make her legs dance. Mr. Verma: We just want to make things a little easier for her. She starts college this fall. (Nicole smiles shyly at Alex who smiles back) Derek: Ah. Mrs. Verma: Seattle Community. Right down the street from us. Mr. Verma: Not that she wouldn't have her pick of schools out of state. Mrs. Verma: But she's not ready for that yet. Alex (winking at Nicole): Why, not because she's in a wheelchair? Derek: Has Dr. Ostfeld named something called a cystoplasty? No? It's an operation to enlarge Nicole's bladder. It creates an opening called a stoma. It's improved the quality of life in a lot of my paralysis patients. Mr. Verma: We toyed with the idea a few years ago. Mrs. Verma: It's not for us. Mr. Verma: Maybe we should re-visit it. Mrs. Verma: Re-visit an invasive risky procedure that's got a 20 percent failure rate? I don't think so. Derek: Nicole, it's something worth considering. It means you wouldn't have to wear a catheter all the time. Not to mention the medical benefits, it ah would improve your quality of life. You know? You'd be like girls your own age. You'd be in control of your own bladder, no messy bags. You'd have a more normal sex life. (Nicole looks down shyly at this. Her mother looks extremely uncomfortable by the idea) Derek: You know when that becomes an issue, of course. Mrs. Verma (to Nicole): We're here for the pain procedure. That's it. (Cut to Derek & Alex outside in the hallway) Alex: That girl and her mom share the same brain. She's not getting that surgery. Derek: I want you to take Nicole with you, everywhere you go today. Take her to labs, take her to coffee, take her anywhere. Just get her away from her parents. Alex: You want me to baby-sit the wheelchair chick? Derek: Nicole. She thinks you're cute. She's a teenager, which means she might even listen to you. Alex (accusingly): You want me to convince her to get that surgery. Derek: I want you to convince her to make the decision for herself. Alex: And how am I supposed to do that? Derek: Dr. Karev, you're creative. You'll think of something. Thank you. (Derek walks off) (Cut to Mrs. Griswold's room. Dr. Burke is doing a physical exam on her. George is there as well. Mr. Griswold is running around the room doing stuff for his wife) Burke: This will be an extensive operation, even for an open heart veteran like yourself. Mrs. Griswold: My room was bigger last time. It was brighter. More sun. (to her husband) Alan this water is warm, I need more ice. (Mr. Griswold hurries to grab more ice) Burke: I'm sending you in for a nuclear scan. Then we'll get you into the OR this afternoon. You do understand all of the risks? Mrs. Griswold: I've been through it too many times to not understand the risks. (to her husband in demanding voice) Get the blinds. Open the blinds. This room is depressing. (Mr. Griswold rushes to open the blinds) Burke: I'll check back a little later. (Mr. Griswold opens the blinds, but his wife makes a face indicating it's too bright so he tries to adjust it. Dr. Burke & George start heading out of the room) Burke: Take her for a thallium scan. Pick up her x-rays on the way. George: Dr. Burke, thank you for choosing me to assist you today. Burke: You're my guy, O'Malley. George: You I'm, I am? I mean ... yeah. Mrs. Griswold (to her husband): Hand me the tissues. ... No, no, no wait. Hospital have germs, get my hand sanitizer out of my case. (Dr. Burke & George walk out of the room) George: Why would you be with someone who makes you that unhappy? Burke: Excuse me? George: I mean like, well like you're happy with Cristina. I mean, she's happy. Well happier. You know, Cristina happy which is not normal people's happy but ... (Dr. Burke just stares at him. George gets a little uncomfortable) You know happy since you guys started ah ... (George realizes he should just stop talking) Scans I'm on it. I'm your guy. (Dr. Burke walks off) George: And I'm an idiot. (Cut to Cristina, Meredith & Izzie coming out of an elevator looking over Shane's chart excitedly. They run into Derek without noticing) Derek: Hi. Hello. Hi. Meredith, maybe we could you know ah talk? (Meredith just stares at him silent) Cristina & Izzie (shaking their heads): No. (They pull Meredith away) Derek: Okay. (Cut to Alex pushing Nicole in her wheelchair coming out of an elevator into a hallway) Alex: Beep beep. Nicole: What'd you do to get stuck with me? Alex: Nothing. Nicole: Come on, I know you're not just wheeling me around for kicks. Alex: No. I was late for rounds. Nicole: Why? Alex: Ah because I had things to do. (He sees Izzie, Meredith & Cristina walking down a hallway through some double doors) Hey Izzie! (They continue walking. He chases after her still pushing Nicole) Alex (calls out): Izzie! ... Hey dollface! (Izzie gestures for the others to continue. She turns around to face Alex) Alex: Oh I was gonna ask you a favor since you know maybe you're better with people than I am ... Izzie (interrupts, voice cold): No. (She turns to walk away) Alex: But you haven't even heard what ... (She turns back) Izzie (interrupts angry): No! No. You're like a broken record. God. You're only ever nice or friendly or anything when it's convenient for you. So no to your favor. No to you. No. (She starts walking off again) Alex: What's up with you? (She turns around again really pissed) Izzie (really angry): I put on a dress! I did my hair! I had one night off in 2 weeks and I used it on you. And what do I get? Nothing. No respect. No apology. You couldn't even be bothered to ... kiss me goodnight. You know what you're a coward and you're just as shallow as you seem. So I am done trying to be your friend or whatever. I'm over it. (She walks off down the hallway through some double doors. Alex looks stunned) Nicole: She's really mad at you. (Cut to Shane's room. His pregnant wife is sitting on his bed. Cristina is talking to her. Shane is in the bathroom, Meredith is outside waiting for him) Meredith: The urine sample is last thing we need, Mr. Herman. (Izzie walks into the room as well) Cristina: Ah, meet Shane's wife, Tina. Izzie: Hey. Cristina: She's also pregnant. (Shane comes out the bathroom with a jar of urine) Meredith: And can you tell us what precipitated the psychotic episode that got you admitted to the hospital. Shane: It wasn't an episode, ok? And I'm not psychotic. I am pregnant! I mean wouldn't, wouldn't you freak out if you were me? (to his wife) Honey did you bring it? Tina: Yeah, yeah. Shane: Oh good. (He starts rummaging around through a brown paper bag) I can prove to everyone I'm not crazy. (Raj the psych intern walks in) Raj: That is my patient! Izzie: Uh oh. Cristina: Yeah well he's ours now. And if you want to fight me for it, I'll guarantee you I'll win. (Shane has a stick and dips it into the urine jar. Bailey has entered the room at this point) Bailey: Now, what is going on in here? Cristina: Dr. Bailey, (to Shane) just a moment please. (to Bailey) Look at his abdomen. (Raj rushes over to them) Raj: It's a male hysterical pregnancy. It's a psych case. (He slaps Shane's stomach) And it's mine! Shane: It's not hysterical! I am pregnant. (Izzie is distracted by the pregnancy test stick Shane used) Raj: See? Psych! Cristina: No his belly is distended. There's no signs of ascites and I clearly feel a mass with deep palpation. Surgical. Izzie (softly): Guys. Shane (sees the stick): Told you I could prove it. Raj: Psych. Cristina: Surgical. Bailey: Eh, come on now. You're doctors. Act like it. (Izzie picks up the pregnancy stick) Izzie: Guys. Raj: Psych! Cristina: Surgical! Raj: Psych! Cristina: Surgical! Raj: Psych! Cristina: Surgical! Izzie (loudly): Guys! (They all look at her) Shane took a pregnancy test and it's positive. (Cristina glaring at Raj, hands Shane's chart to Bailey) Bailey: He's definitely a surgical patient now. (Cristina & Izzie exchange satisfied looks. Raj looks disappointed) (Cut to about a dozen people in Shane's room now. There's a photographer taking photos and Addison is doing an ultrasound) Bailey (softly to Izzie & Cristina): Do not think for a moment I condone stealing patients. That said ... way to go. Shane: The first pregnancy test I took was a joke, to make Tina laugh. Tina: We didn't think it would lead to ... you know, this. Addison: Mr. Herman, I can assure you, you are in no way pregnant. Shane: Wooh. It's a relief to hear it, you know officially. (Addison leaves the room) But hey, why was that stick blue? Bailey: Well that's what we're gonna find out. Uh, Stevens do a shot gun work up, including tumor markers. And get CT to make some room for us in line. Shane (weirded out by the camera): What's this for again? (Someone's beeper goes off) Izzie: Ah medical journals, monthly case reports. Cristina: Annual banquet highlight reels. (They both pose for a picture with Shane. A beeper goes off again) Bailey: Ah hey! Whose pager is that? Cristina: Um, um, mine. But I found him, so can someone else go?Bailey (interrupts): What do you ... no! We don't ignore pages Yang. (She makes a gesture for Cristina to leave. Cristina leaves the room. Shane is looking uncomfortable at the attention. Dr. Bailey makes her way to Shane's bedside with a measuring tape) Bailey: Excuse me. (She measures Shane's stomach) Here. Just need to get to the top. Meredith: We'll be finished soon right, Dr. Bailey? (Dr. Bailey doesn't appear to hear her as she too is also half posing for the photographer) (Cut to Cristina at a Nurse's desk. Debbie hands her a pile of patient charts) Debbie: Patient in 4243 needs a rectal. Then I've got 2 infected wounds, a foley, a grown abscess, 4 debridements and ah ... case of explosive diarrhea. Cristina: You're kidding me right? Debbie: I'm not known for my humor. Cristina: Ah uh why did you page me? ... ah none of these are my patients. Debbie: You're Bailey's intern right? Then these are you're patients. (A phone rings at the desk and Debbie answers) Debbie here. (Cut to Derek walking up some stairs in the hospital with Nicole's parents) Derek: A portion of the intestine is used to enlarge the bladder. Then we construct a pathway for a whole new belly button. It's a very tiny hole that's virtually invisible. She can wear a bikini and no one would ever know. Mrs. Verma: Why would she need a bikini? She doesn't know how to swim. Derek: She could to the beach. Lie in the sun. Hang out with her friends. Mr. Verma: Oh my god, she's so self conscious now. Derek: Right, exactly. Mr. Verma (to his wife): Nicole could have friends her own age Elaine. Mrs. Verma (to Derek): When did you say Nicole would be back? Derek: After her labs. Now just think about her future. Nicole could be independent. She could go to college anywhere. She could have a job, have her own apartment. Date. Get married. Mrs. Verma: These labs are taking a long time. Mr. Verma: She can spend more than 20 minutes away from us, Elaine. Mrs. Verma: I'm asking about my only child. Mr. Verma: She's not a child anymore. Mrs. Verma: She's my child. She'll always be my child. (Cut to George wheeling Mrs. Griswold in a wheelchair down a hospital hallway to get her nuclear scan. Mr. Griswold is walking with them) Mrs. Griswold: Alan! Mr. Griswold: Yes? Mrs. Griswold: Watch your step, you're hitting my chair. Mr. Griswold: I'm sorry. Mrs. Griswold: And hold onto my bag. Mr. Griswold: I've got it. Mrs. Griswold: And don't rummage through it. Mr. Griswold: I won't. (George hands Mrs. Griswold over to a tech at the scan room who takes Mrs. Griswold into the room. George & Mr. Griswold remain outside) Mr. Griswold: Please and thank yous were never her strong suit. George: You're a very patient person. Mr. Griswold: Years of practice. (The strap of Mrs. Griswold bag comes undone) Woops. (George takes the bag off him and starts putting the strap back in its place) Mr. Griswold: I just try to keep her calm. You know they didn't think they she was gonna survive the 1st surgery, let alone 3 more. Here it is 10 years later, she's still here. Yeah it's a miracle that she's still alive. That's what everyone says. George: What do you say? Mr. Griswold: Uh, it's right there in the vows. In sickness and in health, right? (George nods and hands Mr. Griswold the bag back fixed) Thanks. (Cut to Meredith, Cristina & Izzie eating lunch in the outdoor hospital cafeteria. Meredith is reading a magazine. George comes down and sits at their table with his food) George (annoyed): Pregnant guy? You had a pregnant guy and didn't tell me? Izzie: Well, we can get you floor space in the OR for 50 bucks. (Cristina chuckles) Meredith (serious): You're selling tickets and we don't even know what's wrong with him. Cristina: Whatever he's got inside has got to come out. We're just brokering a few deals. Izzie: Sort of like backstage passes. Want in on the cash? Meredith (shakes her head): No. George: I didn't need a pregnant guy! I was Burke's new go to guy. (speaks to Cristina) But that's over thanks to you. He didn't know that I knew about you two. Cristina: Stop talking. Izzie (smiles and then looks up at something): What on earth? (Alex wheels Nicole to their table with both their lunches. The rest of them look at him questioningly) Nicole: Hi ... I'm Alex's charity case. Cristina: Huh, I like her already. George: Are you volunteering? Alex: Don't ask. Izzie: Why? It's not like we can read your mind. It's not like we have any idea what's going on in your tiny, tiny, tiny little brain. Cristina: She has a point. (her pager goes off. frustrated) I am hungry! (She gets up and leaves) Nicole: So this is cool. A real live lunchtime. In a real cafeteria with trays and friends. Izzie: We're not his friends. George: Don't they have a cafeteria at your school? Nicole: I'm home schooled by my parents. Alex: That explains a lot. Nicole: So are you guys the cool kids around here or something? Meredith: What would make you think that? Nicole: It seems like everyone is talking about you. (Meredith looks at up at this from her magazine and sure enough people sitting at various tables are looking over and talking pointedly about Meredith. Meredith goes back to her magazine) (Cut to CT imaging, where Shane is about to get his CT scan. Meredith & Izzie are there) CT Tech: The guys and I were taking bets on who would get to scan this dude. (She gestures to a pocket full of money) Beers are on me tonight. Next up the wager on what this thing is. Meredith: You're taking bets? CT Tech: On what's inside his belly. You want in? 10 bucks. Izzie: Well we know its not fat, fluid or fetus, so ... (They peer close at the scanned images coming up on the screen) CT Tech: Jeez. Meredith: Are those teeth? Izzie (smiling): Cristina is gonna be so mad she missed this. (Cut to Cristina walking down a hallway to a patient's room in which the male nurse Tyler has just walked out of) Tyler: I was told to page you and only you if something like this came up. Cristina: Who told you? Bailey? (You can hear the patient vomiting from outside) No. Tyler: Oh yes. And all I can say is you must've made one serious faux pas. (He hands her a tub) Cristina: I hate vomit. Tyler (hands her cloth to cover her mouth): You're gonna need this. (He walks off. Cristina looks to the side and make's eye contact with Dr. Bailey who can only raise her eyebrows back at Cristina which can almost be interpreted as you deserve it. You can hear the patient vomit again) (Cut to Cristina walking up to Burke who is standing in front of the OR board. Their conversation is conducted in hushed tones) Cristina: Bailey knows. Burke: Knows what? Cristina (she stresses the 2nd word): She knows. Burke: Well, O'Malley knows, why not Bailey? Cristina: So you didn't tell her? Burke: Why would I do that? Cristina: This is bad. Burke: We have to manage the damage ourselves before this thing spins to far out of control. And that means coming clean to the chief. Cristina: What? Burke: If we come out into the open, then no one has anything to say. Cristina: No, no, no way. No way. Burke: That's the only way. Cristina: No. (Richard has walked up the hallway and is standing right behind them now) Richard: Good morning. Burke: Morning chief. Cristina: Ah thank you Dr. Burke. (she walks off) Burke: You're welcome. (to Richard) Great board Chief. (Burke leaves as well. Richard is left standing confused) (Cut to Mrs. Griswold's room where she is lying in bed again. Mr. Griswold is sitting on the bed opposite to her. George is taking her blood pressure) Mrs. Griswold (to her husband condescending): Could you make sure that they get the breathing tube out of my throat right after surgery this time? (to George) Are you trying to cut off my circulation? Mr. Griswold: He's just doing his job. Mrs. Griswold: What did you say? Mr. Griswold: I said he's just doing his job. Mrs. Griswold: Well I don't really care whose job he's doing, he's squeezing my arm off. Are you just gonna sit there? Mr. Griswold (takes a deep breath): Shut up, Kim. (she looks at him questioningly) Just shut up, huh? George (tries to interrupt): Hey. Mr. Griswold: You complain to me, about me ... (Mrs. Griswold's heart monitor starts beeping faster) George (tries again): Maybe ... Mr. Griswold (gets louder): Around me. All day! Everyday! A little silence would be nice. A few measly minutes of quiet. George: Mr. Griswold! Mr. Griswold (yells): Can't you just for once in your life just shut up? (Mrs. Griswold has trouble breathing and heart monitor beeps rapidly. George rushes to her) (Cut to Dr. Burke entering Mrs. Griswold's room where there a now a few nurses there as well) Burke: What do we got? George: She had a Levine sign. EKG shows ST elevations in the inferior leads. Burke: She's having a heart attack. Give her 4mg of morphine. Run nitro. 10 mics per minute. Lets do this fast so we can get her into surgery people. Mr. Griswold (sighs): I did this. ... I did this to her. (Cut to Shane's room where Izzie, Dr. Bailey & Richard are looking at Shane's CT scans. Meredith is at Shane's bedside. There are some other doctors and nurses in their taking pictures with their mobile phones or cameras and pointing and looking) Bailey: A mesenteric teratoma chief. Izzie: In an adult male! Richard: Is this possible? Bailey: It is now. Large bilobed cystic lesion. Izzie: With a solid calcified structure. Richard: A deformed mandible. (Richard walks up to Shane fascinated and checks out his stomach) Bailey: Labs show elevated HCG levels that explains the false positive on the pregnancy test. Izzie: Which also means ... Richard: ... probably malignant. Meredith (to Shane): You ok? You look a little green. (Shane sighs) I think he needs some air Chief. Richard: Deep breaths Mr. Herman. Shane (to Meredith): It's just that most of this medical speak goes right over my head. Izzie: You have what's called a teratoma. And it's really very rare in adults. Meredith: Which is why you're so popular. It's just a mass of cells that's probably been there your whole life only now .... Izzie: ... now it's growing. Shane: Yeah growing jawbones and toe nails and ah clumps of hair. Yeah I've been listening. Tina (a little upset): It's just that nobody's really talking to us. Meredith: Just about you. I know what that's like. (Cristina comes rushing into the room) Cristina: Uh what, what did I miss? Izzie: Ew, is that ... is that rectal jelly on your scrubs? (Cristina looks at her scrubs but then her pager goes off. Cristina half groans and leaves the room again. Meredith makes her way over to Dr. Bailey away from Shane's bedside) Meredith: Dr. Bailey, all the attention. All the people, they're making them panic. (Cut to Addison & Derek standing on the rooftop of some building in Seattle) Derek: You know when you said you found a lunch spot with a view I knew I should've taken you literally. Addison: I found it in my best of Seattle guide. It's hardly brown bagging and top of the Empire State building but ... they do have these cute little viewfinders. Derek: You always find something to complain about. Addison: Okay is there anything that you like about me anymore? Because if there is I really need to know now. Derek: Well I like that you like cute little viewfinders in every city you live in. Addison: I don't live here yet. (There's silence for a bit) Are you gonna stop talking to Meredith? Derek: I will. Addison: When? ... Today, tomorrow, next week? Derek: Maybe I'm not ready yet. Addison: Are you ever gonna be ready, Derek? Derek: What if I say no? Addison: Then I'm not moving here. Derek: Well, I guess we're at an impasse then. (Cut to Cristina walking up the stairs outside the O.R board, Burke is walking on the floor with OR board and calls out to her) Burke: Dr. Yang. We never finished our conversation. Cristina: Yes we did. We decided we're not gonna tell you know who about us. Burke: We decided? If you're worried about your career, your reputation, they're in much more danger if he hears about us through the grapevine. (Cristina comes back down the stairs to meet Burke) Cristina: He doesn't have to hear about us at all. Burke: Only he will. It's just a matter of time. Unless you're hesitating because of some, some different reason. Cristina: You are not thinking this through. Burke: Like not wanting to admit to this relationship at all. Cristina: We are a couple. Burke: Fine. (He walks off upset) Cristina: Burke. Burke: I said fine. (He continues walking) (Cut to Alex wheeling Nicole to the abandoned hallway hangout) Alex: So what's up with you not wanting to get this procedure? Nicole: I'm fine the way I am. Alex: Good point. Your choice. (He pushes her wheelchair away from him and goes to a cabinet and pulls out some medical texts. He sits on a hospital bed and starts reading) Nicole: So you're not gonna try and talk me into it? Alex: Right now I'm gonna study. Nicole: Nuclear something fancy name-ology. Is that why you were late? You were studying? Alex: No. Nicole: Is that girl Izzie your girlfriend? Alex: No. Nicole: Do you want her to be your girlfriend? Alex: Look I got stuck with you because I was late for rounds so if you don't mind kid, kinda busy. Nicole: I'm 18, you know. Alex: What? Nicole: I'm not a kid. I'm 18. And ... and I don't have to stay down here with you. I could go back to my room. Alex: So go. Nicole: Izzie's right. You're an ass. Alex: And I'm not an ass. Yeah okay I am an ass. But I'm a cute ass, right? Nicole (huffs): How come you didn't kiss her? Alex: I thought you were leaving. Nicole: If I had a chance to kiss someone I liked, I wouldn't hesitate. Alex: If I had the chance to lose the urine bag around my ankle I wouldn't hesitate either. Then again I don't let my mommy do all my talking for me. (He smirks at her) Nicole: I don't like you. Alex: Yes, you do. Nicole: Jerk. Alex: Motor mouth. Nicole: Baby-sitter. Alex: Two-wheeler. Nicole (chuckles): Now that's just politically incorrect. (Alex smiles back) (Cut to the O.R. where Burke is operating on Mrs. Griswold. George is standing next to him assisting) Burke: Ok, looks like Mrs. Griswold is doing well. (Camera pans up to the gallery where a bunch of interns are watching the surgery including Meredith, Izzie & Cristina. You can hear Dr. Burke murmuring about the surgery. Derek walks into the gallery. Everyone turns to look at him. He hesitates walking in and decides to stay at the doorway. They turn back to look at the surgery) Cristina: Look at that. Perfectly exposed partially numb beating heart. It's a beautiful thing. Burke: Code red! (Camera pans back down to the surgery. Mrs. Griswold's heart has caught on fire. Yes on fire!) Izzie (amazed): Oh I think it just caught on fire. George: The heart's on fire. Burke: We have to save Mrs. Griswold. Begin fire protocol. George: I'm on it. Burke: Code red! Begin fire protocol. (George puts out the fire with water) Move people! O'Malley disconnect the electrical leads. George: Got it. (George begins disconnecting the leads) Burke: Any unnecessary personnel in this room evacuate now! Shut down the O2. George: Already on it. (He shuts it down) Burke: Start manual respiration. (All the interns are standing watching the surgery intently) George: Okay I got the ambu bag. Starting manual respiration. Burke: I gotta control this bleeding. Her vitals are stabilizing. We might just have a chance. (Cut to Izzie, Cristina & Meredith sitting on the stairs outside the OR board) Meredith (dazed): She was on fire. Izzie: I have never seen anything like that. What was that? Cristina: A freak accident. Meredith (dazed): She was on fire. Cristina: Uh yeah you've already said that. Meredith (still dazed): I know but she was. On fire. (George walks by the stairs) Cristina: George. You okay? George: She was on fire. (Cristina stands up when she sees Burke walking by) Cristina: Hey that was intense, are you okay? (he continues walking) Burke: I'm fine. O'Malley lets go. (They both walking. Cristina's pager goes off) Cristina (sighs): I'm so over this. (Cut to Cristina walking up to Dr. Bailey who is at a nurse's station. Cristina coughs lightly to get her attention) Bailey: Uh hey I heard a heard a heart caught on fire? In the OR? Cristina: I am the best intern you've got and you are wasting me on puke and boils. And I get it and I even deserve it but please you can't keep me away from this surgery. I earned this surgery! I stole this surgery! Bailey (genuinely confused): What are you talking about, Yang? Cristina: You. Punishing me. (Bailey raises her eyebrows at her as if to say what are you on about) You have no idea what I'm talking about do you? (Bailey just looks at her) Well then like who has been paging me all day? The nurses have been on me non-stop. Debbie (sitting at the computer at the nurse's station): A little bit of respect and you could have saved yourself a very long day, Dr. Yang. Bailey (to Cristina smiling): Pissing of the nurses? ... Stupid. Cristina: Well, I can still scrub in right? (Cut to Addison and Richard standing in an empty gallery by themselves watching a surgery) Addison: He wants me to move here Richard. To pick up everything and move! Richard: Don't stay for him Addison. Stay for me. Stay for yourself. Addison: Richard, I ... Richard (interrupts): In Seattle you can be front page news. With your reputation and the money I'm willing to put in promoting you. Seattle Grace will become one of the foremost neonatal hospitals west of Manhattan. (Addison smiles shyly. She looks at Richard who just stares back) Addison: You're serious?Richard: I'm ready to put my money where my mouth is. (Cut to Derek coming out a room into a hallway. He sees Meredith standing by herself at a nurse's desk a few feet away. He starts making towards her. All of sudden Bailey steps in front of him) Bailey: Turn around. Walk away. Derek: From what? Bailey: From my intern. Derek: But I wasn't ... Bailey: Uh yeah, yes you were. Come on, look. You can't do this. You don't have the right. Not anymore. Derek: I just wanna find out if she's okay. Bailey: No she's not! She's a human traffic accident and everybody is slowing down to look at the wreckage. She's doing the best she can with what she has left. Look I know you can't see this because you're in it but you can't help her now. It'll only make it worse. Walk away. Leave her to mend. (Derek sighs but doesn't move. Dr. Bailey gets exasperated) Bailey: Go on! (He nods slightly and walks off) (Cut to Alex wheeling Nicole down a hospital hallway) Nicole: It's not like I don't want the operation. I do you know. I want things. It's just ... what if I'm not ready? Alex: Ready for what? Nicole: For everything. For taking care of myself. For being on my own. For sex. For love. I've never had a boyfriend. I've never even been kissed. I'm like the oldest living prospective college freshman not to go to first base. Alex: Nah. Nicole: It's mortifying. Alex: There are way older losers than you. Trust me. (Nicole stops the wheels of the wheelchair. Alex comes around to face her) Nicole: Alex. Would you kiss me? Alex (chuckles): Wh, What? Nicole: I know you're a doctor, I'm your patient and, and it's against the rules but I would never tell anyone. (Alex looks down both sides of the hallways to see if anyone is looking. There is nobody else there. He bends down close to Nicole who closes her eyes expectantly) Alex: For a kiss to be really good, you want it to mean something. You want it be with someone you can't get out of your head. So that when your lips finally touch, you feel it everywhere. (Nicole opens her eyes) A kiss so hot and so deep you never wanna come up for air. You can't cheat your first kiss, Nicole. Trust me, you don't want to. Cause when you find the right person to first kiss. (He grins) It's everything! (Nicole smiles broadly) (Cut to a waiting room where Mr. Griswold is sitting with his wife's bag. Dr. Burke & George are sitting across from him) Mr. Griswold: Her heart Burke: ...caught on fire? Yes. There will of course be an investigation but you should know this is not as unusual as it sounds. Your wife is going to be fine. She's well. Um we completed the operation and I expect that she will make a fully recovery. Mr. Griswold: Oh. (He has his hands covering his face and half chuckles) George: Mr. Griswold? (Mr. Griswold starts laughing hysterically briefly) Mr. Griswold: So that's it, isn't it? Her heart caught on fire in the middle of her 5th open heart operation. And she survived! (He bursts out laughing again) Mr. Griswold: Whoa. Well she's like some a, some mythical monster. (George looks concerned and stunned. Dr. Burke just kinda smiles at with Mr. Griswold) Mr. Griswold: She's never gonna die. Burke: Mr. Griswold? Mr. Griswold. Mr. Griswold: Mmm Hmm. Burke: I know this is an emotional time for you. Um if you would like to wait ... Mr. Griswold (interrupts): Wait? No, no. (He stands up) I'm not waiting any longer. (He thrusts Mrs. Griswold's bag into George's hands. He grabs his coat and starts to walk off) You tell her, tell her ... hell, tell her ... she'll survive without me! (He starts laughing again and wanders to the elevator. He salutes George & Dr. Burke who just sit there) (Cut to Shane's room where there are quiet a gathering of people now. Everyone is laughing and taking photos. Izzie & Cristina are taking money from people. Some are poking Shane's belly. Meredith comes into the room angry) Meredith (yells): What is going on in here? (They all stop talking) Everybody out! Out! Raj: We already have ... Meredith (walks further into the room, interrupting): Mr. Herman is a patient! (People start leaving the room) A surgical patient who's sick and embarrassed! (Shane & Tina look grateful) And tired of being stared at! (to Cristina & Izzie) You two! This isn't a zoo! Out! Out! Out! You know if all of you want to point and whisper and stare at me, knock yourselves out! Look at Meredith, isn't she sad and pathetic and heartbroken. Maybe she's gone mental, maybe I have! But leave Mr. Herman alone! (Almost everyone has left the room. She walks with Cristina & Izzie to the door) Meredith (to Cristina): You should be ashamed of yourself! (She closes the door behind her. Derek comes to an entrance outside the room and stares at Meredith. She notices) And what are you looking at? (Cut to Dr. Burke and George still sitting in the waiting room where Mr. Griswold left them. George has a dumbfounded look on his face and is holding Mrs. Griswold's bag on his lap. Dr. Burke looks like he's pondering) George (dazed): So, so do you tell his wife or should I? (Dr. Burke cracks up laughing. George chuckles with him) Burke (no longer laughing): I wanna thank you for helping me out in the surgery today, O'Malley. It was a high-pressure situation today and you were on top of it. George: Well thank you Dr. Burke. (Dr. Burke nods) And hey I'm sorry about before about you know (he puts his hand on Dr. Burke's shoulder) bringing up you and Cristina. (Dr. Burke stops smiling and just stares at him. George trails off) and just like ... (George sees his look and removes his hand. Dr. Burke stands up and starts walking away. George sighs and brings his head down to rest on Mrs. Griswold's bag as if to say I'm an idiot) Burke: You're still my guy, O'Malley. (George sits up quickly and nods but still looks slightly sick at himself) Still my guy. (Seattle Scenes) (SGH, ELEVATOR) (Cut to Shane lying in a hospital bed prepped for surgery. Tina is holding his hand. There are other doctor's there including Meredith) Shane (to Tina): I always thought I'd hold your hand in the delivery room. Meredith: I'll let you know when the surgery is over, ok? Tina: Ok. (The elevator dings open. She speaks to Shane): This is far as I go. (They start wheeling Shane down a hallway to an OR room) Shane: Hey Dr. Grey, don't let them show it off. You know, put it in a jar, pass it around or nothing. Meredith: Your teratoma? Shane: Yeah. I just feel weird about having my insides on display like that. You promise? Meredith: I promise. (Cut to Richard, Bailey, Cristina & Izzie are removing the teratoma from Shane's stomach. The gallery is crowded with people taking photos and watching. The song Get Through" by Mark Joseph plays from now until the end credits in the background) MVO: At the end of the day there are some things you just can't help but talk about. Bailey: You really want to be the one to dispose of this Grey? Meredith: I made a promise. (Cut to Burke walking down a mezzanine hallway. Cristina is towards him) Cristina: I am worried about my career. I'm worried about my reputation. I'm ... (She stops talking when Burke just keeps on walking past her. Burke slowly stops and walks back to her. They look at each other) Cristina: I will not be Meredith Grey. I busted my ass to get here and people won't make allowances for me ... Burke (interrupts): This is not about making allowances and you know that. Cristina: Everyone will know. Burke: That's the point. Cristina (stern): I don't want to tell the Chief, okay? I just ... don't. MVO: Some things we just don't want to hear. (Burke doesn't say anything and walks away from her) MVO: And some things we say because we can't be silent any longer. (Cut to Alex wheeling Nicole back to her room where Derek and her parents are waiting) Nicole: I'm getting the operation. Mrs. Verma: She's clearly not considering ... Mr. Verma (interrupts): She is considering. Nicole: I'm getting the operation. You two talk and talk but do you notice how you never ask me anything? Part of it is my fault, I let you do it. But I'm not cheating anymore. I'm not sitting back and giving over control because I am ready to handle things for myself. MVO: Some things are more than what you say. They're what you do. (Cut to Dr. Burke sitting in Richard's office, talking with him) Richard: I appreciate your candor, Preston. Burke: I can take whatever you threw at Shepherd. I don't need any special treatment here. Richard: And your not gonna get any. You're not married. You're not hiding. You came to me. You clearly value your relationship. Burke: Mmm hmm. Richard: What you two have together. (Cristina watches through a window from the outside) I understand that, Preston. And it does matter. MVO: Some things you say because there's no other choice. (Burke glances at Cristina. Richard turns around and looks at her. Cristina sighs and walks away looking mildly upset) (Cut to the therapist's office where Derek & Addison are sitting again with their therapist) Addison: I've given it a lot of consideration and I've decided to move to Seattle. Derek: And ah ... well Meredith won't be an issue anymore she's out of my life. It's well, it's taken care of. Therapist: Well ah I must say this is ah remarkable progress. I applaud both of you. You've ah taken a very significant leap. Addison: That's what marriage is about. Compromise, right? (She holds out her hand to Derek to take. He just looks at it) Derek: Yeah it's uh ah, well it's about ah well give and take. MVO: Some things you keep to yourself. (He puts out his hand to Addison who's already removed hers and then takes it back quickly) (Cut to Joe's bar. Joe is wiping some glasses. Izzie, Cristina & George are sitting at the bar. Izzie is counting cash from Shane's surgery. George is drinking a beer) Joe: She yelled at you? Izzie: Well, we probably deserved it. We sold 485 dollars worth of tickets to the surgery. Cristina (sly): Yeah. Izzie: Did you sell more? Cristina (pulls out a wad of cash from her back pocket): Oh, yeah. Izzie: You're out of control. (George & Joe chuckle. Meredith comes up to the bar and sits next to Izzie) Meredith: Hey, Joe. Joe: Hey. (They all keep quiet and just sip their drinks) Meredith (says as a statement): So you guys really don't have anything else to talk about. Izzie: No. Cristina: No. George: No. (Alex wanders through the door with a determined look on his face and walks right up to Izzie) MVO: And not too often ... but every now and then ... Izzie (confused): What? (Alex just stares at her) Izzie: What?? MVO: ... some things simply speak for themselves. (Alex dips her backwards off the bar stool and kisses her passionately! They kiss for a bit. He pulls her back up) Alex: Good night. (And he leaves through door again) Izzie (breathless): Woo. Cristina (smiling): Wow. Izzie: Seriously. (She takes a large gulp of her wine. Meredith and Cristina start laughing. George holds his hand up in the air for a high five. Joe gives him one. Izzie whacks his hand away. They continue laughing) 2x08: Let It BeOriginal Airdate: 11/13/2005Written by: Mimi SchmirDirected by: Lesli Linka Glatter(Ferry Boat/Seattle Scene) MVO: In the 8th grade, my English class had to read Romeo & Juliet. Then for extra credit, Mrs. Snyder made us act out all the parts. (Derek is on board the ferry and walks to the edge of the top deck, smiling at the sight before him) MVO: Sal Scafarillo was Romeo. As fate would have it, I was Juliet. (On the deck below him, Addison is standing staring out into the ocean. She turns around and sees Derek. He finally notices her and stops smiling. Addison waves but he just walks away. Addison turns semi-upset back to look at the ocean) MVO: All the other girls were jealous but I had a slightly different take. I told Mrs. Snyder that Juliet was an idiot. (Meredith is sitting in her jeep in the parking lot of SGH. Meredith is trying hid an obvious zit on her forehead by covering it with her hair, looking in her rearview mirror as a guide. A car pulls up next to her. And Addison looking as perfect as ever exits the car) MVO: For starters, she falls for the one guy she knows she can't have. Then she blames fate for her own bad decision. (Addison stares at Meredith. Meredith finally realizes someone is looking at her. Addison half waves and Meredith raises her hand back forcing a smile on her face) (SGH) (Izzie and Alex are walking along an open mezzanine hallway) IZZIE: You kissed me. ALEX: Yes I did. Izzie: Should we, I mean ... (she sighs) There's a discussion we could have, if you wanted to have one ... Alex: Izzie I kissed you. With tongue. And I plan to do it again and again. Get used to it. End of discussion. (A broad smile graces Izzie's face. Alex walks off) Izzie: Ok. (Meredith is sitting in her car getting a band-aid ready) MVO: Mrs. Snyder explained to me that when fate comes into play, choice sometimes goes out the window. (She puts a hello kitty band-aid on her forehead to cover the zit) Meredith: God.(Dr. Bailey and Richard are walking down a hallway in SGH) Richard: Congratulations. Bailey: For what? Richard: Fellowships. Five applications. Five offers. Do you know how rare that is? This is your year. Everybody wants to dance with you. Of course, Seattle Grace's fellowship program is the best. Bailey (distracted mutters): Oh yeah. Yeah. (She wanders a few feet away going over a patient file. Richard disconcerted follows her) Richard: You are taking my fellowship offer? Bailey (evasive): I don't know ... I haven't made a decision yet. (She walks off. Richard is slightly shocked) MVO: At the ripe old age of 13, I was very clear. That love like life is about making choices. (Meredith is walking in the hospital into a crowded elevator. Derek is right at the back of the elevator. A patient named Talia is having a conversation with her husband named Speed?) Talia: I would not wish this upon anyone. Literally it's like someone reached in and ripped my guts out. Speed: Baby you had food poisoning. Talia: I had one lousy restaurant clam. ... Wait a minute where's billing again? Derek & Meredith: The basement. (Meredith turns around and sees Derek at the back but turns back quickly) MVO: And fate has nothing to do with it. Talia: We're going the wrong way. (Seattle street where Cristina is meeting Burke on a corner. She's brought him coffee) Cristina: Coffee?Burke: Thank you. It's date night. Cristina: Yeah it's a night uh with a date. Burke: You forgot. Cristina: No. (He looks at her) Yesss. Burke: You wanna cancel? Cristina (trying not to smile): No. (They walk off together smiling) (George is standing a few feet away with a bagel in his hand) MVO: Everyone thinks it's so romantic. Romeo & Juliet. True love. How sad. (A bird's droppings falls directly onto George's bagel startling him out of his thoughts.) George: Oh! Crap! (He drops the bagel onto the ground. A pigeon flies down and starts pecking at his bagel) Sheesh! MVO: If Juliet was stupid enough to fall for the enemy, drink a bottle of poison and go to sleep in a mausoleum ... (George walks away from where he was standing. Almost instantly a loud thump can be heard. It appears a guy has fallen from the sky and landed on the pavement. George is dumbfounded) MVO: ... she deserved whatever she got. (OUTSIDE SGH) (SGH HOSPTIAL, TRAUMA ROOM)(Dr. Bailey and some other doctors and George are with the guy named Stu who fell lying on a hospital bed) Bailey: Window washer. Fell from fifth floor scaffolding. Obvious open tib/fib fracture but otherwise okay. George (amazed): Equal breast sounds. After a 5 storey fall he's got equal breast sounds! (Cristina walks into the room up to Bailey) This is unbelievable! Do you wanna hear? Bailey: Some how I believe you. Yang, get in there and palpate his abdomen. (Cristina goes to do that) Cristina: Does this hurt anywhere? Stu: No. George: You fell from the sky. 5 stories. And you only injured your leg. Cristina (disapproving): George. George: No. Don't George me. A few seconds there ago he would've landed on me. Cristina: Ok rolling on three please. 1, 2, 3. (A bunch of doctors lift Stu onto his side. There are splattered feathers on his back as well as dried blood) Bailey (grossed out): Oh. Cristina: Are these feathers? George: My life was saved by that pigeon. Bailey: Let's get some x-rays. And after that you might want to get in there and look for the rest of Tweety. George (picking up a feather, looks at and whispers): Thank you. (Meredith is talking with an elderly woman named Esme Sorrento lying in a hospital bed in a ward. Her husband Jed Sorrento is at her bedside) Jed: Esme wanted to wait until tomorrow to see her doctor but she hasn't been able to keep anything down since yesterday so I brought her in. Meredith: Mrs. Sorrento you have acute cholecystitis which means that your gall bladder may have to come out. Jed: She has gall stones? Esme (smiling): He watches cable; he thinks he's a doctor. Meredith (smiles): I'm giving you antibiotics and IV fluids to cool the gall bladder down and then I'm gonna go call Dr. Bailey and I'm going to see if surgery is the best way for us to go. Do you have any questions? Esme (looking at the band-aid): Honey what happened to your forehead? Meredith (shakes her head): Nothing. (The nurse's station where an agitated guy named Weiss is talking to one of the nurse's) Weiss: I've already told you I don't need an appointment. I'm not a patient; I am a friend from New York. (Derek sees the guy talking to the nurse) Derek: Weiss? Weiss: Derek! I've been looking for you. (Addison is walking down an open hallway, meeting a blonde woman named Savannah nicknamed Savvy) Addison (opens up her arms): Sav! Savvy: Oh it's good to see you. (They hug tightly) Addison: Oh why didn't you tell me you were coming? (They finally stop hugging) If I knew you were coming I would've taken the day off. Savvy: Well it was kinda last minute. Addison: Is everything okay? Are you alright? (Derek & Weiss are chatting in an empty staff/conference room sitting at table with cups of coffee) Weiss: A month ago her mother died. Ovarian cancer. Derek: Katherine died? (Weiss nods) I'm sorry. Weiss: That's Savvy, she's.... I mean you know how close they were. I mean all she could think about was this breast and ovarian cancer gene. Derek: BRACA. (Addison is talking with Savvy in a similar room as before. Addison is looking over Savvy's file) Addison: A positive test result isn't the end of the world Sav. It just means that you have a gene mutation that could ... Savvy (interrupts softly): I know what it is. I've talked to the genetic counselor. I've been to my gynecologist ... and now I'm here. (Addison sits back. Savvy sits down across from her pleading) Addie, you're the best surgeon there is. Addison (smiles): True. (They both chuckle) But this isn't surgical. Savvy: Yes it is. Addison: No Sav, you understand you don't have cancer. Savvy: And I have no intention of getting it. (Addison stares at her quietly) Addison (shakes her head slightly): So you want me ... Savvy: I want you to take out my ovaries and the uterus. And when that's done ... you're gonna find the best person out there to cut off my breasts. (Trauma room where Stu is now lying on his stomach. Cristina & George are removing bits of the splattered pigeon from Stu's back) Stu: Beak? George & Cristina: Claw. Cristina: We need to widen this incision to take a better look. George: Alright. (George bends down close to Stu and speaks softly) Does your leg hurt a lot? Stu: I'm fine man. Just ... do your thing. (George goes back briefly to removing feathers but then leans back down) George: Is there anyone you'd like me to call? Stu (sighs): What for? George: You fell 5 stories and lived to tell about it. I'd kinda wanna shout it from the roof tops. (Cristina gives him a look) So to speak. (Speaks excitedly now) It's a miracle! You may not understand the medicine of it but a 5 story fall, your lungs should be collapsed, your back should be broken, your aorta should be totally severed ... Cristina (interrupts quietly): George, enough! George (whispers quietly to Stu who groans): I'm just saying there's a reason for this. You lived! We both did. Carpe diem man! Seize the day. Stu (to Cristina): Any chance you could make him leave? Cristina: I really, really wish I could. (Dr. Bailey enters with some x-rays of Stu's legs) Bailey: Mr. Vargas, your lower left leg bones are shattered. We need to get you into surgery. Stu: Oh great just my luck. Cristina (holds up the beak): Beak. George (amazed to Stu): Could I? Would you mind? Could I keep that? (Stu gives him a look) (Savvy, Addison, & Weiss are all sitting together at a table. Izzie is standing at the doorway watching) Savvy: My mother died of it. My aunt. My cousin! She's 37, has ovarian cancer. Weiss: But you don't. You don't have cancer! This is crazy Sav. Savvy: But I have the gene Weiss ... (Derek walks into the room) Addison (interrupts): which gives her up to an 85% chance of getting cancer Weiss. Derek: And a 15% chance she won't. Addison: What are you invited?Savvy: I'm not betting my life on 15%! Derek: Weiss asked me to come. (Derek kisses Savvy's head and sits down next to Weiss) Weiss: I thought it might help. Savvy: Help what? (to Derek) I'm sorry Derek, cause I love you and I'm really glad to see you but until you grow a uterus and watch your mother die from this disease you don't get ... you don't get a vote. Derek (to Addison): She tell you that they were trying to get pregnant? Addison: Yes she did. Derek: Having a hysterectomy is gonna throw a wrench into that. Savvy (adamant): Derek! We've been trying for months. Weiss: Why give up now? Savvy: Come on. We've talked about this. There are other ways to make a family Weiss. We can adopt, we can do ... Weiss (interrupts): Savvy I just ... Savvy (interrupts angry): No. NO! I'm not talking about this! Derek: Let's just take a step back. Take a deep breath and think about this. (He gives Addison a look who gives him one back annoyed) Savvy: I've already thought about it Derek. This ... this is going to happen. (Addison grabs Savvy's patient chart) Addison (she hands it to Izzie): Dr. Stevens get a complete history and her pre-op labs. Get her scheduled for a double mastectomy and consult Dr. Quenar from plastics for a reconstruction. Weiss (upset): Derek. Derek: Addison this conversation is not over! Addison: This ... She is my patient Derek! Doing a bilateral prophylactic oophorectomy and hysterectomy tomorrow. (Izzie looks amazed at what is going on. To Izzie) Get moving. (Derek & Addison are walking down a hallway together) Derek: Prophylactic surgery is extreme. Addison (sighs angry): This is has nothing to do with you. Why were you even in there? She came to me for medical consultation Derek. I'm her doctor. Me. Derek: Those are some of our closest friends. This isn't medical, it is personal. Addison: Fine. Okay if it's personal we should be dealing with them as a couple. Acting like a couple. Derek: What? What does that mean? Addison (she holds up her wedding ring on her hand): See the ring? Derek (angry): Don't go to the ring! Addison: The ring Derek! Remember? We're, we're hear at work you won't talk to me or on the ferry where you pretend not to see me or in couple's therapy 3 times a week where we're arguing about whether or not we should be in couple's therapy. What are we doing? Derek: This is not about us. Addison: It is! Medicine aside our friends are going through hell in there and we can't even act like we like each other long enough to help them. (Derek shakes his head and Addison walks off) (Esme is still lying in bed with her husband now sitting on a chair beside her bed holding her hand. Meredith is trying to insert an IV drip into her other arm) Esme: What's that other that's monogamous? Jed (smiles): I think it's bulls. Esme (to Meredith): Oh I know it's hard. I'm a pin cushion. Meredith: It's okay, don't worry. I won't stick until I find a good one. Jed (to Meredith): Otters mate for life you know. Meredith: Excuse me? Esme: As do bulls I suppose. Meredith: Okay I got it. Hold still. It's gonna take a second for the tube to fill. Esme: Hmm I've always like otters. Meredith: I've always been more of a dog person myself. (Esme laughs) (George and Meredith are at a nurse's desk. Cristina comes to the desk as well) George (excited): Shouldn't he be more excited? Maybe he's in shock, I dunno. But I mean he survived! It's huge! He's gotta realize that things happen for a reason. Meredith: Oh yeah my ex-boyfriend moved his wife to Seattle. Reason: To torture me. George: I'm serious. Meredith: So am I. Cristina: What's with the 'Hello Kitty' on your forehead? Meredith: I don't want to talk about it. Cristina: George can I sign out to you early? George: You don't want in on Stu's surgery? Cristina: Can't. I have a test date. (She lowers her voice) Burke is testing me. (She returns to a normal level) Plus I've already spent an hour picking bird parts out of the guy. I'm over it. George: Carpe diem. Meredith: Giant zit on my forehead and I'm beginning to look how I feel. Carpe that. George (loud & jubilant): This is the luckiest day in the world! Cristina: Tell that to the bird. (Izzie is putting a bandage on Savvy's arm after an injection. Savvy is lying in a hospital bed in a gown. Alex is there as well writing in Savvy's chart. Savvy is staring at Izzie) Savvy: Is it the kid thing? I saw your face upstairs. It's the kid thing for most people. (To herself) And the breasts. Oh and the total menopause like overnight. Izzie: It's a big step. Alex: Well I think it's brave. Savvy: Thank you. (To Izzie) And yes I'd love to be pregnant. I want a lot of things. I wanna ... sky dive. I'd like to learn Italian. I wanna go to San Tropez with my husband and lie topless on the beach. (Izzie smiles) Alex: They do excellent implants in reconstruction these days. (Izzie loses the smile instantly) You won't even know the difference. Plus you'll never have to wear a bra again. That's something right? (Savvy laughs) Izzie (annoyed): Alex, didn't I see your service on the OR board for a biopsy right about now? Alex: Yeah. (He leaves) Izzie: It's not the kid thing. Savvy: Ok. What? (Izzie is silent) It's not like I have a lot of options. One, take my chances and never get cancer. Two, take my chances and die young. Izzie: There's a third option you know? Savvy: Ok I'm listening. Izzie: Take your chances, get cancer and fight like hell to survive. (She leaves the room) (Staff Locker room. Cristina is trying on various dresses. She is wearing a red dress over her scrubs. She holds up a light purple dress and pale white flowery one to Izzie to look at) Izzie: Ah they're both really nice. Cristina: I know. I bought them. But which one is right? (She holds the white one over head and stands in front of a full length mirror to see how it looks. The mirror is between two doors leading to respective female & male bathrooms) Izzie: For what? You're gonna look hot in either one. Cristina: Well clearly. That's not the point. (Meredith & George enter. George whistles) Meredith: Wow you look hot. Cristina: Yeah. Burke and I are gonna talk about how hot I am over dinner. This date is such a mistake. (Cristina starts taking off the red dress) George: But it's easy to get nervous on dates. It's especially hard if you're out of practice so you just got be mellow ... Cristina (interrupts): Yeah I know how to date George. I'm not you. (Alex has entered the room as well. George goes into the men's bathroom) Alex: I have a scheduled for the mastectomy. And I get to stay while plastics does a TRAM flap reconstruction. Izzie: I couldn't do it. Alex: Do what? Make yourself all hot and sexy for your boyfriend like Yang? (Cristina is now putting on the purple dress) Cristina: Go wrestle something. Izzie: I couldn't cut off my ovaries and breasts just because I might have cancer. (Cristina yanks up the dress fully and walks up to Meredith to zip her up) Cristina: Think of it like a hand. If someone told you you'd die if you didn't chop off your hand you'd do it. Izzie: Except when you chop off a hand you don't kill your sex drive, have silicone breasts, get hot flushes and lose your ability to bear children. (Cristina pulls of her scrub pants) Meredith: If it were me I wouldn't even have the test. I mean what's the point? We're all gonna die anyway right? (They all stare at her) It's the 'Hello Kitty' band-aid on my forehead. It's freaking me out. Alex: I say slice 'em and dice 'em. Whatever. They're body parts. (Cristina moves back to the mirror and starts putting on some black heels) Izzie: So you'd cut of your penis? Alex: If it kept me from dying. Besides, I've got plenty of spare. (Izzie makes a face and Alex leaves) Cristina (looks all ready to go): I can do hot in my sleep. I look hot in scrubs. I'm a hot person. He's seen my naked a thousand times. (George walks out of the bathroom at this very sentence and closes his eyes painfully) George (to himself): Bad, bad images in my head. Meredith: But he's never seen you outside the hospital. Cristina (sarcastic): Thank you. (SGH Parking lot at night) (Burke & Cristina are walking to his car all dressed up ready for their date) Burke: You look lovely. Cristina: Thanks. (She quickens her pace a little and goes to open the door for herself but Burke reaches for the door simultaneously) Cristina: Oh. Very polite. Thank you.(He opens the door for her and she gets in. Burke closes the door and walks to the other side of the door trying to shake of his nerves) (Esme is in an operating room. Bailey & Meredith are operating on her) Bailey: Ok, Grey. Adhesions are down. What next? Meredith: Put in graspers to lift the gall bladder so we can dissect it out. Bailey: Good and what are we looking for in Calot's triangle? Meredith: The cystic artery. Bailey: That's right. (looking at the screen of the surgery) Wait a minute. What do you see? Meredith (sighs): Porcelin bladder. Bailey: That's not good. (Dr. Bailey & Meredith are talking with Jed after the surgery in a waiting room) Bailey: Mr. Sorrento when we removed your wife's gallbladder we found that there were calcifications. Jed: What does that mean? Bailey: It's often a sign of gallbladder cancer. We sent it off to Pathology. Jed: She has cancer? Bailey: I'm afraid so. We can keep her comfortable but she's going to need more tests to see what our next steps are. This might include more surgery. Jed: But this surgery will save her right? Bailey: The cancer appears to be advanced. There a palliative surgeries that we can do, that is surgeries to help with the pain but it won't cure it. Jed (devastated looks through the window into the ward his wife is in): How longs she got? Bailey: From what we can tell so far ... she has about 4 to 6 months. I'm so sorry. (Dr. Bailey walks away. Meredith sad moves to walk away as well but Mr. Sorrento stops her) Jed: I don't want Esme to know. Meredith: What? Jed: Esme, I don't want her to know she's dying. Meredith: You don't want to tell her? Jed: Please. You saw her. She's happy. Let me take her home. I don't want her to be afraid before she dies. She doesn't need to. (Pre-op ward where Stu is lying in a hospital bed waiting for his surgery. George is at his bedside. George moves to speak) Stu: No, please don't. No more carpe diem, man. I don't wanna seize the day. George: See that's what I don't get. I'm standing here and I'm just so incredibly happy to be alive. You know I'm looking at the sky, its bluer. Food tastes better. And I didn't survive a 5 story fall. (Stu looks away at this upset. George stops writing in his chart, the smile sliding of his face. Realization dawns him) George (says as a statement): You jumped didn't you. (Stu doesn't reply) (SGH HOSPITAL AT NIGHT) (SGH PRE-OP WARD)Stu: The whole way down all I could think about was Daisy. She's my ex-girl. She works in this hospital. (He huffs) What kinda joke is that? George: Maybe, maybe you got a second chance. Stu (suddenly more upbeat): Daisy. You gotta go and find her for me. Talk to her. Tell her she's the reason that I'm alive. (George just stares back) (Weiss is sitting on an empty hospital gurney against the wall of a hallway. Derek is leaning against the wall talking to him) Weiss (upset): You know we had a future. We had plans. We picked out baby names together. She betrayed that ... without even asking my opinion. Without even giving me time to process. Derek: It's a difficult time. For both of you. She's emotional. Weiss: And hormone changes. Mood swings. They say she could lose her sex drive. Derek: You'll get through this, all right? (He sits down next to Weiss) you'll get through this. You guys love each other. Weiss: Is that what you said about you and Addie? Derek: What? Weiss: You left her. Derek: That was different. Weiss: Was it Derek? Really? Derek: You know, I gotta go check on a patient and get ready for dinner. See you later. (He gets up and walks off) Weiss: Sure. (RESTAURANT WITH A LOBSTER ON THE FRONT AT NIGHT)(RESTAURANT)(Cristina & Burke are sitting at a table for 2 looking over the menus. Cristina starts looking at the table for something) Cristina: Uh, where's the butter? (Burke picks up a bottle of olive oil and holds it out to her) Oh, no, that's olive oil. I want butter. (He nods slightly and puts the olive oil down. A waiter comes up to their table) Waiter: Should I send the sommelier over? Burke: Oh no that won't be necessary. What is a nice oaky chardonnay? Cristina: Oh I want Bordeaux Burke: Chardonnay will be better with the lobster. Cristina: I'm having steak. Burke (a little shocked): You...You eat red meat. Cristina (equally shocked): You don't? (They both look over their respective menus while the waiter waits for their order) (SGH)(George is looking over a map of the hospital with Meredith in an elevator by themselves) Meredith: You're seriously gonna try to find this girl? Hunt her down while she's working. George: Look. ... Ok I know it's crazy but someone's gotta tell her how he feels. I mean he's alive, right? Something good has got to come out of this. (Meredith nods slight) I mean this could change everything. See I dunno I thought you were a romantic. (The elevator door dings) Meredith: Was. Past tense. (The doors open and Derek enters) Derek: Well this is fun, again. I like the 'Hello Kitty' by the way. Very pink. Very cheerful. George (uncomfortable): Daisy works is billing which is where? Derek and Meredith: In the basement. (George nods to himself and makes a funny noise. Meredith & Derek both turn to look at him) (Dr. Bailey is in front of the OR board looking tearful? Richard comes to the edge of a corner near the board and Bailey notices) Bailey: You need something Chief? I have one more surgery and then I'm free. Richard: No, no, no. Bailey: Ok. (She starts walking off. Richard starts walking with her) Richard: Have you made a decision yet? Bailey: Sir? Richard: The fellowship. The Seattle Grace fellowship. I thought you would've accepted by now. Bailey: Busy. I've just haven't had a chance to fill out ... Richard (interrupts): We're a private hospital. We have extensive resources. You'll get more surgical experience here than anywhere else. You could write your own ticket. Why aren't you more excited? Bailey: No I'm excited. I just ... I'm, excuse me sir, I just I need to scrub in. (RESTAURANT)(Restaurant where Burke & Cristina are eating their dinner silently) Cristina: What? Burke: Oh, nothing. Cristina: You know, we should probably skip dessert I have, I have an early morning. Burke: Oh, right. Not a problem. (A guy in a far by table collapses. It is Speed earlier from before in the elevator) Talia: Oh, my god, help is there a doctor in here? (Both Cristina & Burke look over. They both jump up) Cristina & Burke: Yes!(Cristina & Burke are checking over the guy collapsed on the floor) Cristina: Call 911. Talia: He couldn't be having heartburn. I thought he was choking. Burke: Pulse? Cristina: Yes it's rapid and unequal. Burke: Look at this. The length of his fingers. Cristina: He's gotta be at least 6 foot 4. Burke & Cristina: Marfan's. Talia: What do his fingers have to do with anything? Cristina: Your husband is showing classic markers for Marfan's syndrome. Burke: It means the walls of his blood vessels are weak. Cristina: Uh we need an ambulance. Burke: Fast. He could be dissected here and then get him to the O.R. Cristina: Before his aorta ruptures? Talia: What are you talking about? Who are you people? (Paramedics are with the guy on a stretcher in the restaurant. Dr. Burke is with them. Cristina is on the phone to the hospital) Cristina: We have a dissected thoracic aorta. We need a CT cleared and an O.R ready. (They start wheeling the guy out of the restaurant) Burke (to the paramedics): Start another large boar IV. Continue high flow O2. Transport him sirens and lights to Seattle Grace. Paramedic: Who the hell are you? Cristina: Hey! He's the cardiothoracic surgeon who's gonna operate on him. Burke (looking pleased): And she's with me. (SGH)(Savvy is putting make-up on, getting ready for a night out. Izzie walks into her room) Izzie: Oh, I didn't ... have you been discharged? Savvy: Wh? No. I'm going out to dinner with my surgeon and our husbands. Sort of a last supper I guess. I know, I know. Nothing after midnight. (Izzie nods and moves to leave) You're disappointed aren't you? (Izzie stops and turns back) How do I look? Izzie: You're a beautiful woman. Savvy: And so are you. (Izzie half shrugs it off looking down) Is that why this is so hard to understand? Ugh menopause I know. Boobs. But they have hormone replacement, reconstructions. (She gets reflective) But the sexy Savvy. The Savvy that gets noticed when she walks into the room. Hmmm. The Savvy that loves to wake her husband up in the middle of the night to make love. Yeah I wonder if that Savvy is still gonna be there. Honestly I haven't a clue. (Izzie is silent) But then I think is, is that why Weiss married me? God, I hope not. (George is running down some stairs to the basement of the hospital. He sees a sign pointing to Billings and he runs down the hall. He stops in front of an open door. A woman is sitting at a desk) George: Could this place be any further away? It's like Siberia down here. Daisy: That's because we don't like sick people. George: Oh. You know you're, you're in a hospital. Uh, are you Daisy? Daisy: I don't deal with billing questions after 7pm. I'm just data entry at night. George: No uh actually Stu sent me. Daisy: Is this some kinda joke? George: No. He's in this hospital. He's had an accident. I'm his doctor. He's fine. Uh we're taking him into surgery. Um but he wanted me to find you. (George smiles) Daisy: You just tell that bastard he could've come looking for me like 10 years ago. (George looks a little stunned by her response & walks out) (Izzie & Alex are sitting in a gallery watching Stu's surgery about to begin. Izzie looks angry) Alex: What are you pissed about? Izzie: You'll look at everything in a skirt. Alex (teasing): I'd look at you in a skirt. Short. Maybe something school girl. Pleated.Izzie: If that skirt didn't have a pair of big bouncy boobs you'd stop looking. Alex: When you cut them off you build them back up. Maybe you get to upgrade. Life goes on. Izzie (whispers angrily): If there was a genetic test for testicular cancer, you think men who tested positive would have the surgery? No. You know why? It's castration. What man would willingly get rid of the part of his anatomy that makes him a man? This woman is having herself castrated and we book an OR and act like it means nothing! It's not nothing. God. How could possibly act like it's no big deal? I mean what if it was me? Alex: Izzie, you're making... You're freaking out. You know that right? Izzie: If I was the woman with the cancer gene. If I should up tomorrow and my boobs were made of plastic and my skin had aged 10 years and my sex drive had dried up. If it was me Alex would you be so fine with it then? (Alex is silent) Yeah you'd really be hot to kiss me with tongue then, wouldn't you? (Izzie gets up and leaves very upset) (OR where Stu is lying down. George is in there as well) Anesthesiologist: Dr. Bailey's scrubbing in so we're gonna get started. Stu: Okay. Hey George. Listen, did you find her? George: I'm very sorry Stu. They said she's on vacation. Stu: Oh, yeah? Maybe her parents. I bet you she went up to New Hampshire. That's where she's from. Anesthesiologist: I'm gonna push the joy juice. Stu: Oh up, up and away. (The anesthesiologist chuckles) George: Maybe you can see her after your surgery. You know when you recover. Maybe then. Stu: It's all good man. Thanks for trying. (He starts trailing off) It really meant a ... lot ... to .... me. (Stu's heart monitor starts beeping rapidly) Anesthesiologist: Hold on guys. We have a problem. George: He's crashing? Dr. Bailey? Bailey: O'Malley start CPR. (To another doctor) Push Epi. (George and Dr. Bailey are walking out of the OR) Bailey: You'll need to notify the family. George: What happened? Bailey: There'll be an autopsy. Sometimes people get on the table and they just die. There's no way of knowing beforehand and no way of controlling it. George: But he fell 5 stories and lived. It doesn't make any sense. He survived so I could go and find Daisy. And then she didn't even want to see him so what's the point? Bailey: We're all part of the cosmic joke O'Malley. Now leave me alone. (She wanders to the OR board where Meredith rushes up to her) Meredith: Oh, Dr. Bailey. Bailey (loud): What? Meredith: Mr. Sorrento doesn't want me to tell his wife that she's dying. Bailey (yells): You haven't told her yet? Meredith: No. Bailey: Ok, I didn't hear you say that. You're her doctor. It's your responsibility to give your patients the information necessary to make an informed decision. Now, I'm hungry. I'm tired. You're in my way! (She brushes past Meredith) (Cristina & Burke are washing up in the scrub room getting ready to perform surgery on Speed) Burke: Can you see that Echo from here? Cristina: The dissection isn't subtle. Burke: Did you see that wingspan? And the pectus carinatum? Cristina: What about his palate? Burke: The definition of high arched. (They walk into the OR) (Dr. Bailey is in staff room eating a piece of chocolate cake and coffee. Richard comes in) Richard: You're being wooed, aren't you? Bailey: Excuse me? Richard: The fellowship. LA Med, Chicago Central. They're wooing you. I mean you're fielding offers, you're looking at bonus packages, you're letting yourself be wooed. Bailey (looking a little shocked): No, Chief I ... Richard (interrupts): No it's fine! It's fine. Go be a hotshot somewhere else. (He goes to a table and makes himself a cup of coffee and comes back a little upset) Richard: But tell me ... how could you do this to me? I mean, I'm hurt. Really hurt. After all I've done for you. You're gifted and you're ungrateful. And that's all I'm saying. Bailey (annoyed): I'm pregnant, you blind moron. Richard (shocked and looking sheepish): You're what? Bailey: My heart rate is 110. I'm burning 3000 calories a day. My legs are swollen. I've got indigestion and gas. Did you know that carrying a boy in your uterus means you burn 10% more calories than if you had a girl? Guess what I'm carrying! I try for 7 damn years and a month before my fellowship notifications the stick turns blue. Men! From the very beginning they just suck the life right out of you. I'm not leaving. I'm pregnant. Richard: Um ... congratulations. (Burke & Cristina are in the O.R about to perform surgery on Jed) Burke: Dr. Yang. ... You're handling the saw. (Cristina looks amazed. Other scrub nurses look at her also amazed) Cristina: Thank you, Dr. Burke. (She whispers to him) You won't let me pick the wine but this you'll let me do? Burke (he chuckles): Are we all set for by-pass? Nurse: Almost there. (Cristina begins using the saw while Dr. Burke watches her carefully) (Meredith is entering an empty elevator. Well except for Derek who's dressed for dinner standing in a corner typing something into his mobile. The doors ding shut) Derek: So, apparently we both live on this elevator. (Meredith doesn't reply. He shuts his phone and walks to face her. She avoids looking at him) Derek: Meredith. You know, you could at least acknowledge I exist. (The door dings open and Addison is waiting to get on. Derek turns around so his back is facing Meredith and Addison enters the elevator) Addison: Hello, Dr. Grey. Meredith: Hello. Addison (to Derek): You ready to go? Derek: I was on my way. (There is an awkward silence) (Talia is waiting in a patient waiting room. Dr. Burke & Cristina come down some stairs after the surgery to talk to Talia) Burke: Well, it took 3 hours but the surgery went perfectly. (Cristina nods smiling) All we have to do is wait now and see how he's doing when he wakes up. Talia: Why did this happen? Burke: Almost every patient with Marfan's has an aorta that fails. It's just a matter of when. Talia: I guess it was lucky you two were having dinner at the next table. (Cristina & Burke exchange looks) Burke: It was. Take care. (They walk away) (Meredith is talking to Mrs. Sorrento by herself in her patient room about her cancer) Meredith: ... and we can treat it with surgery and chemo but .... Esme: We're supposed to go to Venice at the end of the month. Do you know the story? Meredith: No. Esme: They say if you ride a gondola under the Bridge of Sighs, you're together for eternity. You didn't tell Jed, did you? Meredith: Excuse me? Esme: He's always been so worried that I'd go first. Meredith: You don't want him to know? Esme: You're young. I don't expect you to understand an old broad like me. Meredith: You can't have a relationship built on a lie. Can you? Esme: Oh, honey, it's not a lie. It's our future. I've been with the love of my life for 60 years. And now I'm dying. We're going to Venice. We're getting in that gondola. (Meredith smiles) (Seattle Scenes)(JOE'S BAR)(Addison, Derek, Savvy & Weiss are sitting in a booth together having a few drinks) Savvy: When Addie told me she was coming out here. I had such a good feeling. You guys are gonna make it. You were always meant to be. Weiss: Yeah a couple of clams on a half shell. A couple of peas in a pod. (Addison chuckles) Addison: Hmm. Derek: Still working on the pod part. Addison: It's about choices. (Savvy holds up her coke for a toast) Savvy: We'll here's to taking life in your own hands. Addison: Cheers. Savvy: Cheers. Derek: Cheers. Weiss (upset): Yeah. And here's to bull and here's to crap. And here's to oophorectomy, hysterectomy, double bilateral mastectomy. Savvy: Please stop. Weiss: How smart am I to know all those words? Savvy: Stop. Weiss: Here's to breast reconstruction, nipple reconstruction. Here's to losing your wife. Here's to being the ass who can't be supportive. Here's to that. (He gets up and leaves) (SGH HOSPITAL GROUND FLOOR WAITING ROOM) (Weiss is sitting in one the chairs. Derek walks in) Derek: Weiss?Weiss: Don't talk to me. Keep walking. Derek: You should get some sleep. Sober up. So you're ready for Savvy's surgery. Come on I'll drive you. Weiss: I'm supposed to hold her hand while they rip her apart? That's the definition of love? (Derek sighs and sits down facing him) Derek: You can do this. Weiss: Maybe I can't. Maybe I'm just a guy who likes to screw his wife. Derek (shakes his head): Weiss. Weiss: And that's what she'll think if I'm not there. Derek: You're gonna be there. Weiss (chuckles): This is coming from a guy who packed his bags in the middle of the night and drove 3,000 miles to live in a trailer. Derek: Yeah well what am I doing with Addison now? Hmmm? I'm trying to work it out. I don't know am I out of my, my mind? I don't know. You tell me? .... It's about the ring. It's about the vows. Savvy didn't screw around with you with your best friend. She's looking for support. If you don't give that to her now, if you don't give her that support, then what the hell am I doing? (Weiss just shakes his head) (Meredith is walking out of Mrs. Sorrento's room. Mr. Sorrento is standing in front of the door about to enter with a cup of coffee) Jed: You didn't tell her, did you? Meredith: No. I didn't tell her. (He nods his thanks and walks in to the room with the coffee for his wife. She smiles and takes it. Meredith watches)(Seattle Scenes) (Meredith is sitting on a low concrete wall in what could possibly be the backyard to the townhouse. George is pacing up and down along the wall) George: I thought he cheated fate. Meredith: Maybe he did cheat fate. George: He died. Meredith: I think you can't wait for someone to fly underneath you and save your life. I think you have to save yourself. George: You mean the pigeons aren't going to come? Meredith: The pigeons aren't going to come. (Addison is sitting on Savvy's bed with a Polaroid camera taking photo's of Savvy who's sitting opposite her on the bed doing provocative poses with nothing but a red gown) Addison: Hold still. (She takes the photo and they both laugh) Savvy: Make sure you get both sides. Addison: Okay. Savvy (smiling): You know these are gonna be next year's holiday cards. (Addison laughs and takes another picture) I want them to be immortalized before they're gone. And this way Weiss gets to look at them whenever he wants. (Addison takes another picture) Addison: These are gonna be great. Savvy: We're scheduled to go in at 8? Addison: Yeah. I'm gonna take you down to the pre-op in just a few minutes. Savvy: Weiss will show up, Addie he always does. Addison (slightly teary): Sav. ... As your doctor you know I'm a 100% on your side but ... as your friend are you absolutely sure about this? Savvy (sighs): I know what I'm losing. I get it. But think about what I'm gaining. My life. This gives me a shot. A shot at the future. At shot at me and Weiss ... becoming this crazy old wrinkled couple that argues all the time. I mean, wouldn't you want that? A chance to grow old with Derek? Addison (teary): Yeah. ... Yeah I do. Savvy: Oh god. (She starts crying) Addison: Oh Sav. (Addison comforts her) MVO: Maybe Romeo & Juliet were fated to be together, but just for a while. And then their time passed. (Izzie is sitting on a bench tying up her shoe laces in the deserted staff locker room. Alex walks into the room) MVO: If they could've known that beforehand maybe it would've all been ok. (Alex sits behind Izzie) Alex: Here's the thing. I like your rack. Izzie (interrupts standing up angry): What is wrong with you? Why do you have to be so ... What is wrong with you? (Alex pulls her down back onto the bench) Alex: I like your rack. And I'd want them around if I could have them, trust me I would. But it wouldn't be the end of the world if you got rid of them. Because really ... I'd want you. (Izzie slaps him across the face hard) Alex: Ow. Huh. What was that for? MVO: I told Mrs. Snyder that when I was growing up I'd take fate into my own hands. (Izzie grabs Alex's face and kisses him) MVO: I wouldn't let some guy drag me down. (Izzie gets up and smiles walking off) (Mrs. Sorrento is being wheeled to the elevator. Mr. Sorrento is beside her. Mrs. Sorrento gets up and they walk together arm in arm into the elevator. Camera pans to Meredith who is watching them from the next floor above) MVO: Mrs. Snyder said that I'd be lucky if I ever had that kind of passion with someone. And that if I did, we'd be together forever. (Cristina & Burke are walking down a hall towards the same set of elevators. One of them dings open) Burke: I guess we never really got our date. Cristina: Are you kidding? That was the best date I've ever been on. (She gets onto the elevator smiling and the doors closes. Dr. Burke walks off grinning) MVO: Even now I believe for the most part love is about choices. (Savvy is lying on an operating table in the O.R. Addison is there as well prepping for the surgery. Derek walks in scrubbed up and walks up to Savvy. Savvy tries not to cry) Savvy: He's not coming is he? (Derek smiles with his eyes and moves to the side so you can see the door. Weiss walks in scrubbed up in dark blue scrubs up to Savvy) Weiss: You're shaking. Savvy (trying not to cry, happy): You're here. (Izzie is there as well prepped up. Addison takes a glance at Derek who looks back) MVO: It's about putting down the poison and the dagger and making your own happy ending ... most of the time. Addison (to Izzie): I'm going to go ahead and get started now. (To Savvy) You ready? Savvy (smiling at Weiss): Yeah. Ready. (Weiss is holding Savvy's hand tightly) (Elevator dings open and Meredith is standing outside waiting to get on. She looks up and sees Derek by himself looking down leaning against the back wall of the elevator) MVO: And that sometimes despite all your best choices and all your best intentions, fate wins anyway. (He looks up and sees Meredith but is silent. Meredith walks in and turns around so she isn't facing him. The doors shut. There is a quiet silence) Meredith (softly): I miss you. (Derek perks up slightly at this. He stands up slowly and walks up to right behind Meredith and smells her hair. He pulls back but then slightly rests his head against hers briefly. Meredith closes her eyes at the contact. He moves close and whispers in her ear) Derek: I can't. (He walks out of the elevator. And the doors close on Meredith)2x09: Thanks for the MemoriesOriginal Airdate: 11/20/2005Written by: Shonda RhimesDirected by: Michael Dinner(Meredith's house, where Izzie is dumping a frozen turkey into the kitchen sink. She's getting recipe's and books out in preparation for cooking Thanksgiving dinner) MVO: Gratitude, appreciation, giving thanks. No matter what words you use, it all means the same thing. Happy. (Meredith is dressed to go out sneaking down the stairs. She sneaks past the kitchen peeking quickly to see if Izzie is there) MVO: We're supposed to be happy. Grateful for friends, family, happy just to be alive... Izzie: Hey. (Meredith stops sneaking instantly and spins around. Izzie is standing right behind her with a recipe book) MVO: Whether we like it or not. Izzie: What do you think you're doing? (The doorbell rings) Meredith: Uh ... answering the door. (Izzie looks at what Meredith's carrying) Izzie: You're going to the hospital? Meredith: Yes but after ... Izzie (interrupts): Meredith everyone is supposed to be in the kitchen by 9am to help me make dinner. It's Thanksgiving. Meredith: I'm really not in the mood. Izzie: But it's like a family ... (Izzie is interrupted by the doorbell again) Meredith: Doorbell. (Meredith makes her way over to the door. She opens the door with a strange look on her face. An older man, who turns out to be George's Dad and his two brothers Ronny & Jerry are standing at the door) Mr. O'Malley: Is this where Georgie lives? Meredith: Georgie? Mr. O'Malley: O'Malley. Where is he, upstairs? Meredith: Oh George. Yeah. (They enter the house) Mr. O'Malley, Ronny, Jerry (yell): O'Malley! (They run up the stairs chanting O-Mall-ey O-Mall-ey) Izzie (to Meredith): Should I call the police? (She turns her gaze back up to the stairs. Meredith takes the opportunity to sneak out and closes the door. Izzie hears the sound and calls out) Izzie: Meredith I'm serious! You need to back here for dinner at 6! I mean it! (George is lying in his bed. He has his eyes closed and arms stretched out in the air. He's counting down softly. You can hear the O'Malley chants getting louder. His family opens up the door and yell) Mr. O'Malley, Ronny, Jerry: Happy Thanksgiving! (Ferryboat is sailing across Seattle harbor. Derek is on board with a cup of coffee. Addison is on there with him) Addison: Hey, you. I saw you from the window and...looked like you could use a wake up call. Derek: I thought you moved to a hotel closer to the hospital. You still at the Inn at Bainbridge? (She hands him the coffee) Thank You. Addison: Mm-hmm. Yeah, I had a thing for ferryboats. Derek: Always, you know, what the mocking. Addison: So um ... I was thinking that we could ... have sex tonight. (Derek half chuckles I think slightly disconcerted by the idea) Addison: Look I know we're both gonna feel weird about it. It's the first time ... Derek: Since Mark. Addison: And Meredith. ... I have the day off. Do you have the day off? Derek: Just stop by the hospital. I have patients I need to check on. You have the day off what are you doing here? Addison (shrugs): Was thinking we could have sex tonight. (Derek turns slightly at this) Come on I made a reservation at noon. I figured we could do the Thanksgiving thing you know and then ... I dunno, just rip the stitches. Get it over with. Derek: No anesthesia?Addison: Right. ... What do you think? Derek: Remember med school? We spent Thanksgiving studying for exams and eating really bad Chinese food instead of turkey. Addison: Yeah, too busy and too tired to even think about cooking. Derek: We never had to schedule sex. Not once. Addison: Derek, I wanna get through this. I do. I want things to be normal again, like it used to be. So will you meet me at noon? Derek: Yeah, ok. I'll see you at noon. (Meredith is by herself getting ready in the staff locker room tying up her shoe laces. Bailey comes in) Bailey: Grey. We're working with a temp attending today. Dr. Kent. He's subbing in from Mercy West. We need to get him orientated. (She turns to walk out but turns back quickly) And thanking you for volunteering to come in. Saving me from having to choose an intern to torture. (She starts walking out and Meredith gets up and starts walking with her) Meredith: Happy to be tortured. Bailey: Not a fan of Thanksgiving? Meredith: Not a whole hell of a lot to be thankful for. (Bailey nods slightly. They start walking down a hallway together) Bailey: I like Thanksgiving. Day people spend with their families. Too much family time triggers depression, repressed childhood rage, bitter disputes over the remote and way too much alcohol. (They come to a stop in front of an elevator) People get stupid. People get violent. People get hurt. Meredith: And that's a good thing because? (The doors open and people walk off. They get on the elevator) Bailey: Surgeries Grey! Lots and lots of surgeries. Meredith: I never thought of that. Bailey: The stupidity of the human race, Grey. Be thankful for that. (Derek is walking down a hallway in the hospital still in his casual gear. He comes to the OR board where Richard is standing looking over it also dressed in casual wear) Derek: You're supposed to be at home. Richard: So are you. (Dr. Burke comes into the hall dressed in his blue scrubs) Burke: Ah best maze procedure I've ever done. Under an hour. Derek: I thought you had the day off. Burke: I did. I do. I'm leaving. I simply like to start my day cutting. Gives me a rush. (He starts walking off) Derek: Yeah admit it you can't function 10 feet away from the hospital. (Burke stops walking) Burke: Uh I notice you're both here. Derek: Well I'm here for an hour. Richard: I'm on my way home. Burke: Ah, say it like you mean it. (He chuckles and starts walking off again) Richard (to Derek, adamant): I know how to have a life outside this hospital. (Richard walks off and Derek heads the other way) Derek (chuckles): Yeah damn right you do. (Dr. Kent is standing in the middle of the hallway looking over some patient files. Bailey & Meredith walk up to him) Bailey: Dr. Kent? (He starts walking off. Bailey & Meredith follow him) Dr. Kent: Yes? Bailey: Uh I'm the surgical resident assisting you today. I know you're subbing in from Mercy West so if there's anything I can do to help ... Dr. Kent (stops walking & interrupts): Look, I'm here for one day. I don't need my ass kissed. All I need is to tell you what to do and you do it. And I don't like mistakes. (Meredith glances at Bailey for her reaction to this) Bailey (off put): I don't make mistakes. Dr. Kent: Whatever. There's only one resident I want in my OR. Guy they call the Nazi. Do you know him? (Bailey & Meredith glance at each other) Bailey: The, the Nazi? Dr. Kent: He gets great word of mouth. Stellar rep. Balls the size of Texas? Bailey (raises her eyebrows): That big? (Meredith looks at Bailey trying not to smile) Sounds like an impressively talented man this Nazi. Dr. Kent: Do you know him or not? Bailey: Never heard of him. (Meredith smiles at this) But I'll be sure to keep an eye out. Dr. Kent: For now you can work on smaller cases. A guy just came into curtain 3. Page me if you get confused. (He walks off) Bailey (calls out): I'll be sure to do that. (To Meredith): Like I said, the stupidity of the human race. (Meredith's house)(George is rushing down the stairs with his family) Mr. O'Malley: Hurry up Georgie! There's a turkey out there with your name on it. (He walks past the kitchen where Izzie is getting out utensils to start cooking. She sees George being whisked away) Izzie: Whoa, hey! (She runs into the main foyer entrance) Hey! Where are you going? (She grabs George by his jacket to stop him from leaving) Hey, where are you going? (His family waits at the door) George: Every year, my father, my brothers and I hunt, shoot and kill a helpless slow moving turkey. (Sarcastic) Isn't that great? Mr. O'Malley, Ronny, Jerry: O'Malley! (Ronny & Mr. O'Malley head out the door. Jerry comes forward, grabbing George to go with them) Izzie: Ok but what about dinner? Jerry: Oh we'll have him back as soon as he kills his first bird. Right this year Georgie becomes a man, right Georgie? George: It's George! Come on. (He moves to close the front door behind him) Izzie: Okay, wait, wait! I can't make dinner by myself. Who's going to help me? George (hisses): Who's going to help me? (Jerry has run back and grabs George to go with them. The door slams shut) (SGH) (Bailey & Meredith are pulling back Curtain 3 where a guy lies comatose on a bed. Nurse Olivia is already there with his chart) Olivia: Holden McKee brought in from Mayfield Nursing Home. Bailey: Mayfield? He's in the garden? (Olivia hands Bailey his chart) Meredith: Garden? Bailey: Vegetable. Olivia: Yeah his chart says he fell into a persistent vegetative state 16 years ago. (Dr. Bailey gets a confused look on his face as if to say why is he here then?) Meredith (now reading the chart): He was a firefighter. Injured by falling debris in the line of duty. Bailey: What brings him here today? Olivia: Fell from his bed while being turned by the orderlies. Insurance says he has to be checked out. (Bailey points to Meredith to check him out) Meredith: Temporal parietal scalp lace with associated hematoma. Bailey: What's your plan? Meredith: Irrigate and explore the wound. Repair the lac. He'll need a CT to rule out intra-cerebral hemorrhage, contusion or cerebral edema. (Bailey nods) Bailey: Go to it. Anybody asks I'm off looking for the Nazi. (She & Olivia leave) Meredith (to Holden): Ok, it's just me and you. (She starts to explore his head wound) I'd give anything for your kind of serenity. (To herself) Great. Now I'm jealous of vegetables. You just look so peaceful. (All of a sudden Holden opens his eyes and looks directly at Meredith. Meredith jumps back in alarm, letting out a small yell) (Meredith enters a trauma room where Dr. Bailey and several other ER doctors and nurses are tending to a patient) Meredith: Dr. Bailey? Bailey: This guy's got 3rd degree burns over here over half his body. Tried to deep fry a turkey. Of course he got drunk first. It's gonna be good, you want in? Meredith: My PVS case. He opened his eyes. And I think he was looking at me. (All the people in their chuckle except for Bailey) Bailey: He wasn't looking at you. Meredith: No, he was. (Dr. Kent comes to the door) Dr. Kent: Anything good? (Bailey gestures quietly to the E.R docs to hide the patient from Dr. Kent's view) Bailey: Uh nothing you want to waste time on. There are ah 13 patients that need sutures. Dr. Kent (points to Meredith): She's the intern. She can do the sutures. (Meredith gives him a look but he doesn't see) Bailey: Uh actually she's on her way to CT with a VIP patient on orders from the Nazi. Dr. Kent: Tell him I'm looking for him. (She nods slightly and he leaves) Bailey (to the ER docs): Ok, the burn unit is waiting for him. I'll meet in the O.R. (to Meredith) Grey, get a CT. Have neuro consult. But trust me he wasn't looking at you. (Meredith's Townhouse where Burke & Cristina who are both dressed very nicely talking. Cristina rings the doorbell) Cristina: Don't mention Shepherd. Or Montgomery-Shepherd. Burke: Ok. Cristina: Or the fact that Shepherd is with Montgomery-Shepherd. Burke: Ok. Cristina: Or anything having to do with syphilis. Burke (chuckles and rings the doorbell again): I've been in social situations before. Cristina: Yeah well not with me. Burke: Well, why are we here? Cristina: Just be nice or something. (Izzie opens the door wearing an apron. She doesn't see Dr. Burke who is not standing in front of the door directly) Izzie (agitated): It's half past 10! You're late! I've had to try to do all ... (She stops instantly when she sees Burke peering past the corner of the door and puts on an awkward fake smile) Izzie: Oh hi Dr. Burke. Hello. (He gives her a half-wave) Oh. (She moves to the side so Cristina & Burke can enter through the door. As Cristina is walking by Izzie, Izzie grabs her arm and pulls to talk closely with her. Burke walks in past them and looks around the foyer of the house) Cristina (whispers to Izzie): What was I supposed to do? Blow off my boyfriend for Thanksgiving? (Izzie gives her a look) I tried to. He wouldn't blow. He's like something sticky that won't blow off. Izzie (whispers back): Ok, he's gonna ruin Thanksgiving. Now what am I supposed to talk to Dr. Burke about? Burke (speaks up loudly and walks up to them): People who are shocked when I show up uninvited to their homes call me Preston. (Izzie lets out a forced half chuckle) Cristina: Nobody calls you Preston. Burke: You don't call me Preston. (To Izzie) Nice house. Izzie: Yeah. (Burke goes back to exploring. Izzie gets a cordless phone from her apron pocket and dials a number. You can hear the ringing) Cristina: Izzie why is it so quiet in here? Izzie: Uh Meredith went to the hospital and George is off shooting things with his family. Cristina (mortified): So it's just me, you and (she whispers) Preston? Izzie: And Alex when he shows up. Cristina: Oh great. Izzie (speaks into the phone): Hey Alex it's me, where are you? Ok. Call me back. (She hangs up the phone) Burke: Is something burning? Izzie: Oh god yes! (She runs off to the kitchen) (At the hospital, Derek is dressed in casual gear ready to go home. He walks up to Richard who is standing at a nurse's station) Derek: Hey Chief. Richard: I'm on my way home. Derek: Yeah me too. Was supposed to meet Addison twenty minutes ago. (Meredith walks up behind Derek just as he says this with Holden's file. Derek putting on his jacket turns and sees Meredith. He's a little put off) Meredith: Dr. Shepherd, you're leaving? Richard: Uh I'm also going home. Derek: Then go home. Richard: Adele's sister is in town. I hate that woman. Derek: The OR board needs to be checked one more time. Richard: It does, doesn't it? Excuse me. (He walks off) Derek: I didn't think you'd be here today. Meredith: Yeah well. ... I need a neuro consult. (She hands him the file) Holden McKee. PVS, 16 years. Derek (looks through the file): Well there's no bleed, there's no mass, no fracture. He can be discharged. Meredith: Well he opened his eyes when I was examining him. He opened his eyes. (Meredith hands Derek a pen to sign the file) Derek: Yeah that's normal. Certain reflexes are preserved. There's arousal but no awareness. Meredith (nods): But he was looking at me. Derek: He wasn't looking at you. Meredith: He was. Derek: The CT report says he wasn't. (He hands her back the file) Meredith: Do you wanna argue with what I know I saw? Derek (grabbing his case): No, Meredith. I don't wanna argue with you anymore. I gotta go, I'm late. (He starts walking off. Meredith is a little stunned by his behavior. He stops himself and walks back) Derek: He was looking at you? (They walk towards Holden's room)Derek: So, how are you?Meredith: I'm fine. How are you?Derek: Fine. Meredith: Good. Me and you are in this weird limbo. This is gonna go on forever, isn't it?Derek: I hope not, but I think so. Meredith: Yeah, me too. Derek: Yeah. Meredith: I moved Holden to a room on 4, so...Derek: You lead, I'll follow. Meredith: Ok. (Forest) (George, Mr. O'Malley, Ronny & Jerry are trekking through some wilderness. They're decked out in camouflage army wear, carrying guns and coolers) Ronny: '65 GTO. Jerry: '57 Bel-air convertible. Two-door. Mr. O'Malley: The GT 500. Now that was a car. Georgie pick a car. Come on. George: You do you realize that you can buy a turkey? At the market? They've got hundreds of them. You know all wrapped. They're ready to go. No ammo required. Mr. O'Malley: You'll be the one to shoot the turkey today. I can feel it. George: See that's the thing. I don't wanna shoot the turkey. Jerry: You say that every year! George: Well and every year I don't shoot the turkey. (Meredith's kitchen) (Izzie is on the phone again. Cristina is sitting on a high chair at the island. Burke is holding a pan that is smoking. He points to the pan) Burke: What is that? Izzie: It was supposed to be my marinade. (Speaks into the phone) Alex it's me again. Just wondering where you're at. (She hangs up) Burke (says as a statement): You've never made a Thanksgiving dinner before. (Izzie is quiet slightly nodding) Cristina (affronted): You can't cook! Izzie! Izzie (defensive): Well I'm a baker! I bake. But I've seen my grandmother cook a million times. (Dr. Burke shrugs off his coat and puts it in a nearby chair) Cristina: Okay that's it. If there's no food I'm going home. Burke: Cristina, Cristina, I have this. (To Izzie) What are you using as a reference text? Izzie (she gestures to a book on the island): 'The joy of cooking'. I also printed up some recipes from the internet but they all seem to contradict one another. (She wanders over to the sink) And I can't figure out which side of the turkey is up and which is the bottom. (Cristina moves to speak but Burke gestures her to be quiet. He walks over to the sink and washes his hands) Burke: Ok. Ok. Um. I'm gonna need the basing brush, a bowl, uh a clove of garlic (Izzie starts looking madly for the stuff) and ah do you have any fennel? Izzie: Uh yeah right here. (She brings the fennel to the sink. Burke rolls and cracks his neck. Izzie smiles excitedly. It's very reminiscent of a surgery) Burke: Ah ok, well let's get this turkey up and running Stevens. Garlic. (He holds at his hand) Izzie (she slaps the garlic into his hand): Garlic. (She grins broadly. She looks back at Cristina who looks anything but amused) Cristina (to herself): I'm gonna need liquor. Lots and lots of liquor. (Holden is lying unconscious in a patient room. Derek is standing on one side of the bed checking his eyes with a small flashlight. Meredith is standing on the other side of the bed watching) Derek: There's no sustained visual pursuit. You might have just seen him respond to some sort of external stimuli. He wasn't looking at you. I'm sorry. Meredith (leans in close over Holden): And I was sure he was. (Suddenly Holden's eyes dart towards Meredith) Look he just did it again. Derek: Mr. McKee can you follow the light? (He holds the flashlight above Holden's eyes moving it back and forth. Holden's eyes don't move) Derek: Can you hold up two fingers? (No movement again. Derek gives a look as to say see?) Meredith (looking at Derek): Well okay I know you're late for something ... (Derek notices Holden's eyes move towards Meredith) Derek (looking at Holden): Keep talking. Meredith: What? Derek (he gestures to his side): Walk over here. Meredith: What? Derek: Just keep walking. Talk. Meredith (walks over to the other side): Holden. Holden. Holden, can you hear me? Holden. (Holden's eyes move to where Meredith is standing) Derek (amazed): It's you. He's tracking you. He's following your voice. (Meredith nods slightly) (Meredith & Derek are looking at some x-ray scans of Holden in the x-ray room) Derek: Well that's why there's no mention of brain atrophy in the CT report. Cause there isn't any. Meredith: None? He's been PVS for 16 years. Derek: Well, he's not PVS. He's minimally conscious. Meredith: He's minimally conscious and no-one noticed? Derek: Had he been in a state of the art neural facility they'd have tested him but...He was in a regular nursing home so they just ... Meredith: ... missed it. Derek: Mmm. Meredith: He's been frozen. Sleeping for 16 years and they missed it. That sucks. Derek: There's one thing to be thankful for. Meredith: What? Derek: We might be able to wake him up. (Alex is studying in the empty hallway hangout area. He's listening some of the voicemails Izzie has left him) Izzie: Alex, its Izzie. If you're not coming you could have at least have the decency to call and tell me. (Alex shuts his phone frustrated and hits his back against the wall but continues to study) (George is on his mobile phone behind a tree while his brothers and father are a few feet away. He's on the phone to Cristina who's stuck townhouse searching for liquor but coming up empty handed. The scene alternates between the Townhouse and the Wilderness) George: I'm in hell. Cristina: I'm the one in hell. Burke's going all Iron Chef in your kitchen. Get your ass back here and save me. George: I'm in the woods with shotguns, and liquor and car talk. It's like deliverance out here. (George sees his brother's having a drinking contest) Cristina: Well at least you've got liquor. Where does Meredith keep the booze? George: Uh I don't think she has any. Cristina (mortified expression on her face): How's that possible? She's a wasp. Liquor is like oxygen to a wasp. George: Which is why we're out of liquor. Listen, can you come and get me? Cristina (yells): Ok how am I supposed to get through the holidays without liquor George?!? (She moves to hang up the phone) George: Just come and get me! Cris ... hello? (He shuts his phone close and hisses to it) Selfish! (Addison is sitting by herself at a bench in a courtyard of sorts with a view of the harbor with a picnic basket. She's on her phone) Addison: Derek, it's me. Where are you? (She hangs up) (Meredith and Derek are standing at the top of a stairway looking at the ground floor waiting room packed with people sitting) Derek (his phone beeps): Which one do you think she is? Meredith (looking at the people intently): Holden's wife? Derek: Yeah. (There is a woman holding a large handing bag looking down at the ground. A man on one side reading the paper and a teenage boy just sitting with his palms in his hands) Meredith: It's her. (She starts walking down the stairs) Derek: How do you know? (Meredith walks a few steps up to the woman with the bag and who is actually pregnant) Meredith: Mrs. McKee? (The woman named Mrs. Cheryl Leonard stands up) Cheryl: It's Mrs. Leonard now. (Holden's patient room. The 3 people are all there now. The man is Mr. Hal Leonard and the teenage boy is Coby McKee. Holden & Cheryl's son. Meredith and Derek are telling them the news) Cheryl (slightly upset): What do you mean wake him up? Derek: Well over the years your husband's brain has been slowly trying to heal itself. Now we've given him a course of amphetamine that should give his brain the push it needs to find consciousness. Coby (agitated): When? How long does it take? Derek: If we're right, your father will be awake in a few hours. Coby: Is he gonna realize what happened? Derek: Most patients in this situation have no idea how much time has passed. Cheryl: Oh god. Coby: I'm gonna be sick. (He rushes into the bathroom adjoined to the room and slams the door) Derek: I know this is a difficult situation ... Cheryl (interrupts): I just got married. We're having a baby in December. And Coby turns 17 on Thursday. (upset) Difficult? Dif, this is unimaginable! I can't be here when he wakes up. He can't see me like this or Coby. (she knocks on the bathroom door) Coby baby we're leaving. (to Mr. Leonard) We'll be in the car. (Meredith moves to talk to Mrs. Leonard who has dragged her son out of the bathroom and towards the entrance of the room) Meredith: Mrs. Leonard. Cheryl (upset): Holden is gonna wake up and find out that we didn't wait for him. He's a good person. How could you do this to him? (She walks off. Camera switches to Mr. Leonard who also looks upset) Derek: You should get her back. Hal: I'll try but I don't know. It took her a long time to move on. (He walks out of the room) (Derek and Meredith are standing on a rooftop overlooking Seattle)Derek: We did the right thing. Medically, Holden's out patient and we treated him. Meredith: I'm sure he'll thank us later. Derek: Meredith, it's...Meredith: Did you see that kid's face? Holden is a complete stranger to him. Derek: Cases like this are...Meredith: It's not cases like this. It's this one case. You don't get it. You have a life. You go to sleep, you wake up and that life doesn't exist anymore? That man has no one. Everyone's moved on. Except for him. It's not an easy thing. Derek: I'm sorry. (He puts his hand on her arm)Meredith: I know. (Bailey is scrubbing her hands at a sink in a hallway all scrubbed up. Dr. Kent comes up striding towards her looking peeved) Dr. Kent: What are you doing up here? Get down to the pit. We're backed up. Bailey: No can do sir. The Nazi has me on this surgery. Dr. Kent: We've got a line out the door for sutures. Everybody's an amateur chef until they get a knife in their hands. Bailey (shrugs, making her way towards an O.R): Knives can be tricky. (Bailey is getting gloves put on by the scrubs nurses. Richard is standing in there already scrubbed next to the patient lying on the operating table who has a very large knife sticking out of his back) Bailey: Your wife know you're working today? Richard: I'm going home. I just wanted to watch a little bit. Bailey: Yeah well don't stay here to long. Could end up like him. (She looks pointedly the patient) Wife stabbed him. Said she didn't like the way he was carving the turkey. Richard: Ouch. (Cristina is opening the front door of the townhouse. Joe is at the front with a good looking Asian guy) Joe: Happy Thanksgiving! Cristina: Joe thank god! Joe: Hey, this is my boyfriend Walter. (Walter raises his hand to say hi) Cristina: Whatever. Tell me you brought liquor. Joe (holds out pie): I brought pie. Pumpkin. Cristina (disbelievingly): You're a bartender! Joe: Did you bring scalpels? (Cristina motions her frustration and grabs the pie off Joe) (Forest) (George is with his family crouching down near a tree. George is using a tool to make a turkey bird noise) Mr. O'Malley (pokes George): Come on, pick a car. George: I don't wanna pick a car. Ronny: He doesn't know jack about cars. George (mutters): I know plenty I just don't wanna pick one. (Jerry hears this and rolls his eyes) Mr. O'Malley: Georgie's just tired. They working you too hard at the hospital? (To Ronny) You know he works 48 hour shifts? Ronny: 48 hours and you enjoy it? George: Yeah I enjoy it. Jerry: Like what do you do? George: You know, medical stuff. (Jerry rolls eyes again) Mr. O'Malley: Come on. George (smiling): They're not gonna get it. Mr. O'Malley: Make your brothers jealous. Tell them what it's like to be a big time surgeon. Come on. George (little more perked up): Okay. Last night this was pretty cool. I assisted on a truncal vagotomy and we ah inflated this ... Jerry (interrupts): Assisted? ... Wait what do you mean? George: I helped a surgeon. Anyway we inflated this guy's abdomen ... Ronny (interrupts): Woah wait you helped the surgeon? George: I'm a surgical intern. The resident or the attending, they perform the surgery. Jerry: So you don't actually cut anybody open? I mean, by yourself? George (slightly defensive): No.Jerry: Do you hand the surgeon stuff that he needs? Scalpels?George: That's a scrub nurse. Mr. O'Malley: Georgie does that thing with the gas that puts the patient to sleep.George: No, Dad. Dad, that's the anesthesiologist. Ronny: Well what? Do you like take the patient to surgery? George: Um...orderly. No, like the point of being of an intern is that you're learning. We watch the surgeries and the attending asks us questions and we have to answer them. It's not easy. I have to be on top of my game 100% of the time. It's incredibly difficult. Jerry: So you don't actually do anything. (George gives him a look to which Jerry raises his eyebrows) George: Yes I do. Ronny: You just stand there. George (frustrated): No! I assist ... Ronny (interrupts): Watching while the real doctors work. George: No! I uh! I'm a real doctor! What? Dad! Ronny (interrupts): What? You just stand there, so you don't do anything. George: No! I didn't ... no you said I didn't do anything! Jerry (interrupts): Real doctors save lives Georgie. I mean if you're just standing there ... George: Oh for god's ... !!! (Jerry & Ronny break out into laughter. Mr. O'Malley whacks Ronny) Ronny: What? (George sits stiffly looking upset and starts making the turkey calls again) George: I wanna go home. Mr. O'Malley: Just as soon as you shoot your turkey. (Meredith is sitting on the floor of Holden McKee's patient room. He is still unconscious. Alex comes to the open door and knocks on the inside wall) Alex: What are you doing here? Meredith: Waiting for my patient to wake up. Alex: Why aren't you at the Thanksgiving? Meredith: Why aren't you at Thanksgiving? (Alex gives her a wry smile and enters the room. He sits down next to her groaning slightly and looks at Meredith) Meredith: What? Alex: I tell you something, you tell me something. (Meredith looks at him and closes her patient file that she was looking at) Meredith: Ok. I feel like one of those people who's so freaking miserable they can't be around normal people. Like, I'll infect the happy people. Like, I'm some miserable, diseased, dirty ex-mistress. Your turn. Alex: I failed the medical boards. If I tell Izzie she'll be nice about it and all supportive and optimistic. She might as well rip my nads off and turn them into earrings. Meredith: Alex, you should go to Thanksgiving. I mean don't tell her if you don't want to, but you should go. Otherwise you're just ... me. Alex (nods slightly): A miserable diseased dirty ex-mistress? (Meredith smiles and Alex whistles continuing to nod) Alex: It's hot. (Meredith laughs) It's really hot. I feel better already. Meredith (still smiling): See? (Alex gives her a reassuring pat, ruffles her hair and stands up) Alex: Happy Thanksgiving. (He leaves the room. Meredith looks down and picks up her patient charts and starts heading out of the room) Holden: Hello? (She stops walking immediately and turns to Holden's bedside) Holden: Is somebody there? (Meredith walks up quickly to his bed) Somebody? Meredith: Yes. (He looks at her) Somebody's here. (She takes one of his hands in hers) (Meredith is still with Holden. Derek is there with 3 nurses looking over Holden) Derek: Mr. McKee your muscles have suffered deterioration and your joints will be painful for a while which is to be expected. Now the fact that your communication skills are still intact is remarkable. Holden: Did you reach my wife yet? Is she coming? I mean have you told her? Or do you wait until she gets here because this is gonna be quite a shock. (Derek nods slightly) Holden (to Meredith): How long have I been out? (Meredith gives Derek a look) A year? Derek (to the nurses & Meredith): Could you excuse us please? (The nurse's and Meredith start making their way out) Holden (calls out to Meredith): You tell me. (Meredith stops looking at Derek) Please. You found me. You tell me. Meredith: I'm only an intern. I've never really done this before. Holden: Me either. You'll do it quickly. Rip off the bandage. Derek: Hmm. No anesthesia. Holden: Exactly. Derek (nods slightly): Hmm. I'll be right outside if you need me. (Derek glances at Meredith briefly before he walks out of the room) Holden (lets out a shaky breath): Truth time. Meredith: Truth time. Holden: How bad is this truth gonna be?Meredith: It's bad, Holden. (Meredith is in the room alone with Holden, we can't hear what is said but Holden lets out a noise of shock.) (Meredith's Townhouse kitchen where Izzie is chopping celery with a large knife on the kitchen island. Dr. Burke is standing beside her. The following scene is very reminiscent of the very first episode with George's first surgery) Burke: Hmm. You have to cut the celery into finer pieces Stevens. Izzie: Uh huh. (She cuts a few more) Like that? Burke: That'll do. Put them in with the onions. (Izzie grabs the chopped pieces and places them with a bowl of chopped onions) Burke: Now, what should you be concerned about? Izzie: Um ... Burke: The turkey, Stevens. I expect you to know that. Izzie: Right. I need to check the turkey to see if it's cooking at the correct temperature. (They head over to the oven) Burke: And how do we do that? Izzie: Meat thermometer. (Joe, Walter and Cristina are sitting at a table watching the whole cooking show) Joe: 10 bucks says she dries out the turkey. Walter: 20 says she pulls it off. Cristina: 75 says I don't care. (Izzie has opened the oven and pulled out the turkey in its tray out a bit) Burke: Hmm. Okay Stevens, let's see what you can do. (Izzie puts in the meat thermometer) Burke: Alright. More pressure. Turkey has a tough shell. Dig in. (Izzie pushes the thermometer in further) Izzie: I'm in. (Joe, Walter & Cristina) Joe: Damn she got it in. Walter: Told you she was going to pull it off. (Cristina looks extremely discomfited by the whole situation. Camera focuses back on Burke & Izzie) Burke: Good, not bad. Now all you have to do is get the thermometer deep enough to get a temp. But be careful not too ... Burke & Izzie (at the same time): Oh! Burke: You hit the bone! The pan is filling with juice and you're losing moisture. What do you do? Izzie (panicking): Uh ... um Burke: Think! (Cristina grabs her stuff) Cristina: That's it. I'm out of here. (She gets up and starts walking down the hallway to the front door. Burke runs after her. He stops her in the foyer) Burke: Hey what's the problem? Cristina: You're operating on a turkey and ... and, and you're making friends with my friends. Burke: Shh. You told me to be nice. Cristina: It will be nice. You know I'm just gonna go to the store and ah get some liquor. Can I have the keys please? (Burke hands her the keys confused) I'll be back. (Cristina leaves the house. Camera goes back to Joe & Walter who look amazed) Izzie (calls out): Dr. Burke! (Burke makes his way back to the kitchen) Burke: Suction! Use the baster for suction! (Forest ) (George is still sitting with his family at the same tree waiting for a turkey to come by) Mr. O'Malley: GT 500 was a Shelby. He also made the viper, you know that? George: Yes, we do know. Ronny: The Shelby 500 is a good car. Jerry: Yeah. Mr. O'Malley: And the other car he made is ... (He stops talking when he sees a turkey all of a sudden appear a few meters away. Jerry instantly lifts up his gun to shoot it but George grabs it stopping him) George: Turkey. Turkey. Jerry, we came out here so I could shoot a turkey. Dad said we're not leaving until I shoot a turkey. I am shooting this turkey! (Jerry puts his gun down annoyed and George lifts up his rifle taking aim at the bird) Mr. O'Malley (whispers): When you're sure you've got it, squeeze ... Ronny (whispers to Jerry): Don't worry about it. He's not gonna do it. He's gonna chicken out and you ... (All of sudden George fires his gun. Jerry & Ronny get shocked looks on their faces) Mr. O'Malley: Yahoo! (They all stand up to look at the bird) Ronny (stunned): He got it. George: I got it? Mr. O'Malley (gleeful): You got it Georgie! George (happy): Let's go home! (MRI Room) (Holden is lying on the table for the MRI machine. Meredith is standing at his feet) Holden (teary-eyed): What's he like? ... My son? Meredith: You know I didn't really get a chance to speak with him. But he seemed nice. He's ah tall like you and he's got your eyes. Holden: That ... that's good. (Meredith nods and looks back to the viewing room we're Derek is standing with a MRI tech. He gives her a slight nod. She turns back to Holden) Meredith: Holden, we're ready to begin. Holden (scared): What does the MRI do? Meredith: Just gives us a better picture of your brain really. You're one for the books you know? Holden: That's nice. Meredith: If you're ready.Holden: When I went down into that fire...we were going on vacation the next day. Taking the baby to see my mom. She was so excited. I tried to call my mom today. But, um...she's dead now. My mother's been dead for eight years. I'm ready. Meredith: Ok. (Derek and the MRI tech look on from the viewing room. Meredith comes to the door) Derek: How's he doing? Meredith: As well as we could expect. (Meredith walks into the room and they both look at the images of Holden's brain being produced by the MRI) Meredith: Damn it. (Holden is lying on a hospital bed that's been propped up. Derek & Meredith are talking to him) Derek: An epidural hematoma. When you fell out of your bed this morning you hit your temple, hard. CT didn't catch it but, the MRI did. Holden: And you can fix it? (Holden & Meredith make eye contact while Derek speaks) Derek: Won't be easy. Sometimes it's impossible to find the vessel and complications can rise but yes, I can operate. Holden: But so there is a risk? Derek: Very large risk, yes. Holden: And what happens if you don't operate? Derek: Best case scenario is that the bleeding resolves itself. Or it can continue to bleed and cause the brain to swell. Holden: Which means what? Meredith: Most likely, without the operation, you'll die. Holden: But the operation could kill me too, right? Derek: There are equal risks both ways. Holden (to Meredith): What do I do? What would you do? Meredith: I can't answer this for you. (Holden sighs sadly and closes his eyes) (Meredith's kitchen) (Dr. Burke & Izzie are preparing more food for the dinner at the island in the kitchen) Izzie: Can I have that spatula please? Thank you. (Izzie starts tossing some onions around that are chopped up in a pan. Burke places something on an oven tray and looks over Izzie's shoulder) Burke: You want the butter to melt, not to boil. (Izzie stops with her onions and picks up a wooden spoon and starts mixing the butter in another pan) Izzie: Dr. Burke, how did you learn to cook like this? (Burke starts mixing the onions next to Izzie) Burke: My mother owns a restaurant in Alabama. Izzie: Seriously? Burke: Seriously. Izzie: Does Cristina know that? Burke: No. Actually, she doesn't. Izzie: She doesn't ask a lot of personal questions. She's kinda hard to get to know. Burke (smiles): Yes, she is. ... Karev didn't show? Izzie: No he didn't. Burke: Is that okay? Izzie: No, it's not. (Joe comes up to the kitchen doorway holding an empty wine glass) Joe: Do you know that there's absolutely no liquor in this house? Burke: Ah yeah Cristina went to get some. Izzie: Over an hour ago. Where is she? (SGH, waiting room) (A large black man who looks like he is about to choke stands up when he here's his name called by Cristina who has a yellow gown over her clothes holding his chart. Addison gets out of the elevator.) Addison: Dr. Yang. Cristina: Um...yes?Addison: Have you seen my husband?Cristina: No, I have not. Addison: Do you know where he is?Cristina: No, I do not. Addison: He was supposed to meet me hours ago. (They both stand there awkwardly for a moment)Cristina: I'm not here. Addison: Neither am I. (They walk off in opposite directions. Cristina stops and picks up a chart and calls for the patient)Cristina: Levi Johnson? Mr. Johnson (difficulty speaking): Yes. Cristina: You swallowed a wishbone? Mr. Johnson (chokes): Yes. (She starts walking down a hallway with Mr. Johnson following behind) Cristina (smiling broadly): Excellent. We'll have to take some films. Maybe you ruptured your esophagus, huh? That means surgery. (She passes Dr. Kent who is still doing sutures)Dr. Kent: I don't believe this.(Forest) (George is packing up the Ute they obviously all drove down. He slams the back shut) George: Car's loaded! (He turns to Jerry & Ronny who are sitting on the drinking coolers nearby) George: Guys! Coolers! Come on. Get up, get up, get up! (They get up and he grabs the coolers and places them in the back as well) George: Dad, come on! (Mr. O'Malley comes up to George holding the dead turkey wrapped up and places it in the back as well) Mr. O'Malley: Hold on Georgie. We've gotta blood you. (He reaches his hand into the wrapped up turkey) George: Oh no. No. (Mr. O'Malley smears two blood finger streaks on both of George's cheeks) Mr. O'Malley: Now there you go. Now you're officially an O'Malley man. Jerry & Ronny (yell together): O'Malley! Mr. O'Malley: I uh left my hat. (Mr. O'Malley walks up a bit the road while Jerry & Ronny smother George in a hug) Jerry & Ronny (yell): O'Malley! George (laughs): Guys! Just get in the car. Ronny: O'Malley! Jerry: O'Malley! Ronny: Twenty-one gun salute for Georgie! (They both draw up their guns to shoot) George: That's not the best idea guys. I'm serious, don't! (Ronny's gun accidentally goes off. A large moan of pain is heard from Mr. O'Malley. Ronny looks stunned. Jerry looks up and is also shocked. George upset turns to Ronny) George (yells): You shot Dad in the ass! Are you happy now? (He storms off up to his father) (Trauma room) (Mr. O'Malley is lying on a hospital gurney face down dressed in a hospital gown. Ronny & Jerry are also in there playing with the equipment. George walks in and is dismayed by the sight) Jerry: It's like laser tag.Ronny: Not in the eyes. George: Guys! This is the trauma room, what are you doing? (George puts on his gloves and gestures to Ronny who is holding a piece of hospital equipment) George: Put it down. Dad I'm gonna inject you with something to numb the area. Mr. O'Malley: Ahh ah I'm fine. I don't need anything. It doesn't even hurt that bad. George: Dad you have a bird shot embedded in your (he stops himself) ... gluteus maximus. When I start removing it believe me it's gonna hurt very bad. Jerry (to Ronny): Hey, the '65 GTO. (George gets a very frustrated and annoyed look on his face) Ronny (scoffs): That's a V8 tweaker. (Mr. O'Malley smiles) Jerry: You don't want that. What you want is the Bel Air. (To Mr. O'Malley) But it's gotta be the two tone right? Mr. O'Malley: Right. (They all chuckle except for George) Pick a car Georgie. George: No thanks. Jerry: Come on Georgie. Pick a car. Ronny: I told you he doesn't know jack about cars. Jerry: He doesn't know jack about jack. George (in a very controlled voice): Jerry. First you say the GTO. Ronny counters with the Bel Air which never fails to make Dad say the GT 500. (He starts getting louder and angrier. Jerry & Ronny get quiet looks on their face) The cobra, the Chieftan. Then someone names a German car which invariably starts the American versus foreign debate that usually ends when one of you brings up the DeVille. And that always, always leads to the unbelievably long discussion on the merits of the '57 thunderbird. (he is now yelling) So how about I just jump to the end and name the thunderbird now so that once in our lives we can stop picking cars!!! (He takes off his gloves angrily) And my name is George!! (He leaves the room angrily) (Holden's room. Meredith is watching from the nurse's station. Derek walks up to her and notices that Coby is in the room with Holden as well) Derek: What do you know? The kid came back. Meredith: No he didn't. (Coby is leaving the room. He stops in front of Meredith & Derek) Coby (shrugs upset): He says we have the same eyes. Derek: Yeah. Coby: Didn't see it. (He walks off) (Meredith opens the door to Holden's room were Holden looks devastated. She stands at the doorway) Holden (teary eyed): He said that he couldn't stay ... because of the holiday. But he, he said he'll come back some time soon. Meredith (nods): Good. Holden (smiles): Yeah. He said she's happy. Ah that this guy, Hal, is really good for her. She loves him. (He takes a deep breath. Meredith looks sad for him) So I've decided to ah go ahead with the surgery. Um, they've moved on. I should too. Now get this thing outta my head and let me get on with my life. Meredith: (slightly teary eyed): Right. (She nods) I'll ah tell Dr. Shepherd. (She moves to close the door) Holden: Dr. Grey. Meredith: Yeah? Holden: Do you think he really will come back? Meredith: I hope so. (Meredith's kitchen) (Burke is checking on the turkey in the oven as Izzie walks back into the kitchen) Izzie: Joe and Walter have got the table set up in the living room. How's our bird? Burke: He needs a few more hours. (Izzie sighs and grabs a few plates from a cupboard) Burke: Why did you plan this big dinner if you knew you couldn't cook? Izzie (shrugs): I just like Thanksgiving, Dr. Burke. Burke: Preston. Izzie (smiles): Preston. Burke: You just like Thanksgiving? Izzie: Doctor-patient confidentiality?Burke: Doctor-patient confidentiality.Izzie: Ok. We work 18 hours a day, 6 days a week, 50 weeks a year. We don't really have any time for our families. We don't have friends that aren't doctors, but we have this one day, where we don't have to cut anyone open. One day where we get to be like everybody else. One day to be normal. A day where nobody lives and nobody dies on our watch. It's like a gift. So I just thought we should appreciate it. That's all. (She grabs the plates and shrugs) Gotta set the table. (Izzie leaves the kitchen. Burke slowly nods and smiles) Burke: A day without surgery. (SGH, operating room) (Bailey is operating on the guy who swallowed the wishbone. She holds up the said wishbone she has just removed eye-level. Cristina is also in there by her side) Bailey: Now who swallows a wishbone whole? Cristina: Dr. Bailey, why are you working on Thanksgiving? Bailey: You work the extra shifts and get the extra practice. Trying to get in all the practice I can ... before the baby comes (Cristina looks up at this) and I have to take time off. My husband isn't thrilled I'm working Thanksgiving but he isn't a surgeon so he doesn't get it. Cristina: Oh. Bailey: You and Dr. Burke? Cristina: Yeah. Bailey: He would've made a good father. (Dr. Kent opens the OR door)Dr. Kent: They said the Nazi was in here.Bailey: He was, but he left. I think he went down to the pit. (He leaves and Cristina gives Bailey a look)Bailey: Don't ask. (Holden is being placed on a hospital gurney in an OR room. Meredith is watching from the doorway. Derek comes up to her ready to start performing the surgery) Derek: Hey. You coming? Meredith: Not enough interns. I gotta cover the floor. (Derek shrugs at her) What would you have done if you were him? Would you have the surgery? Derek: You would have the surgery. Meredith (nods): I would want the future or to be asleep again. One or the other. Nothing in between. Derek: I honestly don't know what I'd want. Meredith: I know you don't. Derek (nods): If you get a chance you can scrub in later. I'm gonna be at this a while. (He walks into the OR) (George is walking back into the trauma where his father is still lying on the gurney. Ronny & Jerry are nowhere to be seen) Mr. O'Malley: I thought you'd forgotten about me. George: No. (loud) Where are Ronny and Jerry? Mr. O'Malley: Nurse told them that the cafeteria was open. George: Oh. (George starts prepping again to remove the bullet) Mr. O'Malley: You didn't have fun today. George: It's not that ... (he shakes his head) No. No I didn't have fun. Mr. O'Malley: You hurt your brothers' feelings. George: Dad! Mr. O'Malley: You did. George: They talk to me like I'm stupid. They call me Georgie. They've never treated me like I'm one of them. Mr. O'Malley: George, Jerry is a dry cleaner. Ronny works in a post office. I drive a truck. You're a surgeon. You're not one of us. I know it and they know it. You make sure we know it. (George starts removing the bullet) George: Dad. Mr. O'Malley: I'm, I'm not blaming you. It makes me proud that you're so smart. Like I did something right. It's just ... we try! We try to include you but, you don't like the stuff that we like. And we don't know how to talk about the stuff that you want to talk about. You're not one of us but, damn it we don't treat you like you're stupid. You treat us like we're stupid. And maybe we are but we're your family. Give us an inch, Georgie. Every once in a while, pick a car. (There's a silence) George: I saved a guy's life on an elevator last month. I performed open heart surgery on him right there. Mr. O'Malley: By yourself? George: By myself. Just like a real doctor. Mr. O'Malley: Hmm. (amazed) Hm! That's something. That's really something. (Meredith is washing up in the scrub room adjacent to the OR with Holden's surgery. She's getting ready to go in when she looks up through the window. Everyone is scrambling around. A doctor is performing CPR. She drops the bar of soap she is holding shocked. Holden's heart monitor has flat lined. Derek sighs and shakes his head slightly to Meredith. Meredith looks down sad) (Derek and Meredith are walking out of the OR. They see Coby sitting by himself in an empty side waiting room. He stands up when sees them) Derek (sighs): I'll take care of it. (Meredith is sitting by herself in the staff locker room. She looks up when she sees Cristina walking by) Meredith: What are you doing here? (George walks into the locker room and does a double take when he sees Cristina. He then spots Meredith) George: Oh. This is beyond bad. (Cristina looks away slightly ashamed) (Meredith's dining room) (Izzie is sitting at the head of the table. Joe & Walter walk in. Joe walks up to her and gives her a kiss on the forehead) Joe: Sorry, Izzie it's after 8. Gotta get to the bar. Izzie: On Thanksgiving? Joe: It's one of our busiest days of the year. People need a safe haven from the bitterness, loneliness, quality family time. I'm their important store. See you later? Izzie: Yeah. Joe (to Burke is sitting at the other head of the table): Night Doc. Burke: Night Joe. Izzie: Bye Walter. Thanks for coming. (They wave and leave the house) Izzie: You can leave too if you want. Burke: I'm not leaving the table until the hostess does. Izzie: They're not coming. Burke: Even so. (Izzie smiles. Suddenly there's the sound of the key turning the door lock. George & Cristina enter the house and walk into the living room where the table is set. Cristina sits down near Burke. George approaches Izzie before sitting down) George (whispers to Izzie): Today I committed bird murder and I was forced to touch my Dad's ass. I get extra points for showing up at all. (Cristina reaches into her bag and places some bottles on the table) Cristina: I brought booze. (Izzie stands up as if to say something mad but changes her mind and smiles) Izzie: Let's just eat. (She sits back down) (SGH Parking lot) (Meredith and Derek are sitting on a bench together. He sighs and stands up) Derek: You know today in the waiting room, how did you know Cheryl was Holden's wife? Meredith: Waiting rooms are full of people hoping for good news. She was the only one who looked like she had completely given up. Derek: Yeah. (He starts to walk off but Meredith speaks) Meredith: Do you love her? (He stops, turns around and sits back down) Derek (shakes his head slightly): I don't know. Meredith: It's good that you're trying. You wouldn't be you if you weren't the kind of person who's trying to make it work. Derek (softly): You think so? Meredith: Yeah. (She smiles) It means I wasn't wrong about you. Derek: Thanks. (Meredith stands up to leave. She looks at him meaningfully) Meredith: Goodbye, Derek. Derek: Bye, Meredith. (She turns around and starts walking away) MVO: Maybe we're not supposed to be happy. Maybe gratitude has nothing to do with joy. (Meredith is standing outside on the porch of the Townhouse looking in at Cristina, Burke, George & Izzie all talking and laughing having dinner) Alex: Hey. (She turns around and Alex is standing behind her) Meredith: Hey. Alex: You going inside? Meredith: Nah you go ahead. Alex: You sure? Meredith: Yeah. Go make her happy. Alex: Yeah. (He opens the front door and walks in. Meredith turns back to watch and sees Alex walk in and hug Izzie) MVO: Maybe being grateful is recognizing what you have for what it is. (SGH hallway) (Richard is standing in front of the OR board. Bailey walks up to him) Bailey: You're a surgical junkie! Go home! Richard: Adele's already mad. I'm in trouble no matter what. And there's a Whipple happening in OR 2. Bailey: Go home right now! (She walks off to the nearby elevator which dings open. Dr. Kent gets off as she gets on) Richard (yells at her as she gets on the elevator): This kinda treatment is why they call you the Nazi!! (Dr. Kent stops at this shocked and turns around to look at Bailey. She stands smugly) MVO: Appreciate small victories. Bailey (to Dr. Kent): Happy Thanksgiving. (The elevator doors shut) (Burke & Cristina are sitting in his car outside the townhouse) Burke: I was nice. Cristina (smiles): Yeah. I noticed. Burke: You don't ask a lot of personal questions and you're very hard to get to know. Cristina: Yes. Burke: My mother owns a restaurant in Alabama. Cristina: I scrubbed in on a foreign body removal this afternoon. A guy swallowed a wishbone whole. (Burke chuckles and starts the car) MVO: Admiring the struggle it takes simply to be human. (Derek is driving home in the pouring rain. He pulls his car to stop in front of his trailer where Addison sits waiting on the porch. He gets out and walks through the rain and stops in front of her) Addison: You didn't show. (Derek nods) So, um...I bought Chinese food. And I waited. It was good. Now it's luke warm and old. Which makes it just like the food we used to have in medical school. So...(He looks down) Derek, are you done? Hurting me back? I mean cause I need to know. Cause if not ... I gotta special order a thicker skin or something. MVO: Maybe we're thankful for the familiar things we know. (Derek sits down next to her and looks at her) Derek: No anesthesia in sight. (Addison looks at him hopefully as he starts leaning in) Derek: Here we go. (They kiss) MVO: And maybe we're thankful for things we'll never know. (Joe's bar) (Meredith is sitting at the bar by herself reading a book with a drink. A good looking guy walks up to her) Guy: Is this seat taken? (Meredith looks up and then glances at Joe who awaits her answer. She looks back at the guy) Meredith: Do you work at the hospital? Guy (smiles): No. Meredith: You're not a brain surgeon or a doctor of any kind? Guy: No. (Meredith looks back at Joe who smiles and then looks back at the guy) Meredith: Then this seat isn't taken. (The guy sits down) MVO: At the end of the day, the fact that we have the courage to still be standing ... Meredith: Do you want to buy me a drink? Guy: Actually I do. (Meredith smiles) MVO: ... is reason enough to celebrate. 2x10: Much Too MuchOriginal Airdate: 11/27/2005Written by: Harry Werksman & Gabrielle StantonDirected by: Wendey Stanzler(Opens with two people hurriedly taking each other's clothes off walking down the hallway of someone's home) MVO: When you were a kid, it was Halloween candy. (Meredith is with some guy. Burke and Cristina are making out passionately as they manoeuvre themselves into Burke's apartment) MVO: You hid it from your parents and ate it until you got sick. (Cristina loses her jacket as Burke continues kissing her) Cristina: So, this is where you live? Burke: Oh hell. (He picks her up and carries her to what I'm assuming is his bedroom. Cristina lets out a burst of laughter) MVO: In college it was the heady combo of youth, tequila and well you know... (Izzie and Alex are entering the townhouse from a date. They start making out passionately, losing clothes along the way as they make their way up stairs) (Addison and Derek are in the shower together. Derek moves forward and kisses her) MVO: As a surgeon you take as much of the good as you can get... because it doesn't come around nearly as often as it should. (Meredith is making out with what appears to be a different guy in her bedroom) MVO: Cause good things aren't always what they seem. (Addison rolls away from Derek and lying beside him in their bed. Meredith drops herself beside her current bed mate an Indian guy named Steve Murphy looking a little unsatisfied and dazed? Derek has the same unsatisfied look. Addison is breathless and smiling.) Addison: That was amazing. Derek (looks like he's lying): Yeah. MVO: Too much of anything, even love is not always a good thing. (Meredith and Steve in her bed. Meredith turns away from Steve so her back is facing him. He looks at her) Steve: Did you... (he nods fervently even though she can't see) Meredith: Yeah, I did. (Seattle Scene) (Meredith's room) (Meredith is sitting in pink robe on a chair next to her bed. Steve is still in bed asleep. She's on the phone to Cristina) Meredith: There's a boy in my bed. Cristina: What's his name? Meredith: Um, Steve. (Cristina is brushing her teeth at Burke's apartment. She leaves the bathroom and starts exploring the apartment still brushing her teeth) Cristina: Where'd you find him? Meredith: Joe's. Cristina: Hmm. Guess where I am? Meredith: Where? Cristina: Burke's apartment. He went to the hospital. (She makes it to the kitchen and spits into the sink) He left me here alone. Meredith: You're going through his stuff aren't you? Cristina: Oh! There's no stuff to go through. It's a freak show. I mean you could do surgery in here. (Cristina walks into his adjoined dining/living room which indeed is impeccable. Everything has a spot and there seems to be a lack of personal mementoes. Cristina notices his bookshelf and walks up close in horror) Cristina: Oh! He arranged his books using the Dewey decimal system. Mer, I'm scared. (Meredith is still sitting on her chair) Meredith: Get out. Get out of the house now. (Steve who has woken up now but is still in bed hears this and turns to Meredith) Steve: Who you talking to? (Meredith looks at him surprised he's awake) Meredith (to Cristina): Uh, I gotta go. (She flips the phone closed and stands up) Meredith: Uh I have to go take a shower and when I get back you won't be here so um, goodbye... Steve. (She nods and walks out of the bedroom) (Cristina is finishing getting ready and is in the kitchen looking for food in the fridge. She decides against it and closes the door. She notices a coffee maker and moves to grab the pot and a mug next to it. She picks up the mug and it jingles. So she reaches in and pulls out a key. She notices the yellow bit of paper that was under the mug and picks up to read it. The note reads: C, I had a key made for you. - B. Cristina is left with a look of shock on her face) (Meredith's kitchen where George walks in with his laundry basket. Izzie is already in their making breakfast for herself. George starts sorting his laundry at the table) George: Well another sleepless night in Seattle. Izzie: Yeah, who was it this time? Hairy back guy? George: You know who I miss? Inappropriate facial hair guy. You know he did his own dishes? Izzie: Oh tattooed ass guy made coffee. George (makes a face): Yeah he was a keeper. (Izzie notices this and gives George a knowing look.) George: What? (Izzie raises her eyebrows at him) What? Meredith? (Izzie shrugs as if to say yup) I am over her. Izzie (disbelievingly): Ok. (George sits down at the table) George: I am. Izzie: Yeah I can see that. George: But is she trying to set some kind of record? (Izzie moves her breakfast to the table and joins George) Izzie: At least she has a goal. (Feet can be heard running down the stairs) Izzie: Oh! (George and Izzie both look to Steve moving hurriedly pass through the hallway and through the front door) George: Oh he's new. Izzie: And I shall name him 'Running Guy'. (she smiles) Hmm. George: You know who I heard Alex come home with last night? (eyes wide at Izzie grinning) You! Izzie: I don't want to talk about it. (George chuckles) Actually I really do want to talk about it. But he doesn't want to talk about because there were... technical difficulties. George: What? Izzie: You know he didn't... (She makes a gesture to show her hand going flop) he was... (George gets a look of absolute amazement and glee on his face) George (chuckles grinning): No. Izzie: Stop it. (George continues to laugh) You can't say anything! (George continues laughing) Izzie: George, stop it! George: I, I'm gonna at least think about making fun of him next time I see him. Izzie: He said it never happened before. George: Well that's what we all say. (Izzie raises her eyebrows) And I mean they. That's what they all say. Izzie: I don't know. Maybe this relationship just isn't meant to be. I mean I just, just need some sex George. You know just (she grabs his t-shirt and pulls her close to him) I need sex now. You know what I mean? George: No matter how hard you beg, I am not doing you. (He smiles and Izzie lets out a smile) (SGH) (Richard's office. Addison is signing the papers of her contract at a table while Patricia stands over her shoulder. Richard is sitting at his desk watching) Patricia: Nice to have you on board. Addison: Thank you, Patricia. (Patricia takes the papers and wanders off. Addison puts her white coat on stands in front of Richard's desk) Richard: Your own service. State of the art NICU. And a salary that'll make you one of the highest paid surgeons in the northwest. You better be worth it. Addison: Quintuplets, Richard. Richard: That's a goal. Addison: Mother-to-be checked in this morning. Richard: Nothing I like more than a high profile case. Addison: Well don't go calling the press in yet. It's an extremely high risk pregnancy. At least 3 of the babies are surgical. In fact I'm gonna need to pull people from all departments. Richard: You're my star. Whatever you need. (He stands up and they shake hands) (Mr. Robert Martin is lying in the CT scanner) Robert: Is there a meal service on this flight? (Alex is standing in the viewing room with Mr. Martin's chart. A CT tech guy is there at the comp. Derek walks in and Alex hands him the chart) Alex: Robert Martin, 45, collapsed and hit his head causing a small subdural hemorrhage. He also presents with uncontrolled hand movement and delirium. He's alcohol and tox screens were negative but his sodium levels were 112. Derek: Hmm. A little too low for my taste. Robert (calls out): Hey! Hey! Derek (speaks into the mic): Mr. Martin, how are you doing in there? Robert: I'm still waiting on that drink. Are you the stewardess? (Alex and Derek chuckle) Derek: We're, we're called flight attendants now. Robert: Hey! Hey! Derek (points to the computer screen with scans of Mr. Martin's brain): Oh there it is right there. On His pituitary. It's a Rathke's Cleft Cyst right there. Alex: So he's hyponatremic. Derek (nods): Yeah. Alex: Excessive thirst is a common side effect. The water is what's been screwing his sodium level. Derek: That's what's causing his delirium. So how do you ah treat hyponatremia? Alex: Ah, 3% hypertonic saline solution IV, 300ccs over 3 hours. Derek (hands back the chart): Great. Get him back to his room. Call me when he stabilizes. Nicely done Dr. Karev. (Derek leaves) Robert (calls out): Hey! When does the movie start? (Dorie Russell the pregnant woman with the quintuplets is being checked on by Addison. Izzie is there watching. Tom Russell, Dorie's husband is on his mobile phone standing in the doorway) Addison: Dorie, this is Dr. Stevens. She will be working with us on this case. Dorie: Oh, the more the merrier. Izzie (chuckles): Apparently. How far along are you? Dorie: 32 weeks. Addison (to Izzie): How long is the normal gestation period? Izzie: 40 weeks but with twins ah 36 weeks is considered full term so with quints 34 weeks is considered extremely successful. (Addison smiles at Izzie) Tom (on phone): Just give him some acetaminophen. It's, it's in the medicine cabinet. Dorie: I plan on going on 36 weeks. (to her stomach) No one is leaving this uterus until I say so. Addison: Power of positive thinking, huh? Dorie: Well that, bed rest and all the medical care you can give me. Tom (on phone): Uh we're with the doctors now. So, I'll talk to you later. Ok. Bye. (he hangs up his phone and walks further into the room. Speaks to Dorie) Uh Adam's got a fever which means soon they'll all have fever. I don't think my mom's gonna manage. Dorie: Ah we have four year old boys at home. Adam, Oliver and Graham. Izzie (shocked): Triplets? You already have triplets?... I guess when you take those fertility pills you should read the fine print. Addison (admonishing tone): Dr. Stevens. Izzie: Uh, oh I'm sorry. I meant it as... Dorie (interrupts): It's okay, I'm used to it. I just really wanted a girl. Tom: Yeah, we just didn't bank on 5 girls. Dorie (smiling): But think of all the clothes and all that pink cuteness. Tom: Oh honey that's your happy place, remember? Dorie: Oh yeah. (Tom leans in for a kiss and hug. Addison moves towards Izzie and speaks to her privately) Addison: Try not to say everything that pops into your brain. (She hands Izzie Dorie's chart and walks out of the room) (SGH Entrance) (Meredith and Cristina are sitting in their scrubs outside on a bench with take-away coffee cups) Meredith: They always look so sad when I kick them out. (They both chuckle) Seriously, why do guys not understand that when you pick them up in a bar and take them home for sex, that there are no picket fences or kids in your future. (Cristina sighs and reaches into her pocket and pulls out the key Burke gave her, holding it up for Meredith to see) Meredith (smiles): Burke keyed you? Cristina: Got freaking keyed before coffee. Meredith (chuckles): What is wrong with them? Cristina: They're like these 1950s debutantes, one dance and there's a shot gun to your head. (Steve, Meredith's one night stand from this morning walks up to Meredith and Cristina holding a jacket in front of his lower abdomen region looking extremely discomfited) Steve: Meredith. (Meredith looks up at Steve and gets a look of pure shock on her face) Steve: You work here? Meredith: What are you doing here Steve? Steve: I'm having a little problem. Cristina (to Meredith): Steve, Steve? Steve: Actually I'm having a big problem. (He moves the jacket to the side. Cristina notices immediately as she's looking straight that way but Meredith doesn't as she's still looking up at Steve's face) Meredith: What? Cristina: Steve! Hi! Cristina. (Cristina turns her gaze back to his face. He gestures hi back. Cristina turns back to look at his lower body half) Steve: Ever since you and I... (Meredith looks at Cristina and then finally notices down below and does a double take) it won't go away. Meredith (horrified): Cristina! Cristina: What? It's right there looking at me. (Steve places the jacket in front of his body again) Cristina (laughs): There are so many things I could say right now. (she pats Meredith's shoulder) Champ. (SGH) (Meredith and Cristina are sneaking Steve down a hospital hallway. Steve is still holding the jacket in front of him) Steve: Do you think it's serious? It hurts like it's serious. Cristina: You realize this is completely insane. Meredith: Well we have to stash him somewhere till we figure out what's wrong with him. I can't have the whole hospital finding out. Cristina: I am not going down for this. (Bailey pokes her head around the corner a few feet away) It's not my fault you broke this guy's penis. Bailey (calls out): Broke his what? (They stop and then try to keep on walking) Uh hey! (they stop again and she walks up to them) Don't make me chase you down. I'm growing a person here. Cristina (looks pointedly at Meredith): I gotta check on some labs. (Meredith gives Cristina a death look and Cristina walks off. Bailey turns to Meredith for an explanation who stands there awkwardly) (Izzie is alone with Dorie in her hospital room. Izzie is looking at the heart readings for the quintuplets) Dorie: How's it look? Izzie: Not bad. Dorie: Not bad? Izzie: Not bad is pretty good when you have 5 babies in your uterus. (Dorie makes a slight sigh of pain. Izzie looks at her) Dorie: Ah. It's Kate. She kicks me so hard. It's like a belly burn every time. Izzie (raises her eyebrows but looking at Dorie's patient file): You've named them already? Dorie: I know you think I'm crazy. Or maybe just a little bit stupid? Izzie: Mrs. Russell, I'm sorry if I've done something to offend you. Dorie: The only thing that will offend me is if you pretend that you haven't been judging me since the minute we met. (Izzie is silent) We're gonna be spending a lot of time together so we may as well be honest, right? Izzie: If you had reduced the fetuses, even by two, the other three could've been carried longer, been more developed and born healthier. Dorie: And you're about the 16th doctor that's told me that. (Izzie is quiet. Dorie reaches out and grabs Izzie's arm. She places Izzie's hand on her stomach) Dorie: This one up here. This is Charlotte. She's the stubborn one. Lodged under my rib cage. Won't budge. (She moves Izzie hand to another part of her stomach) Dorie: Now over here, Lucy. She's a badass. If she gets kicked, she kicks back. (She moves Izzie's hand again. Izzie is smiling) Dorie: Emily. She has the hiccups almost everyday. (Again moves Izzie's hand) Dorie: And over here is Julie. She's pretty mellow. Every once in a while she just turns over. (Again moves Izzie's hand) Which brings us back to Kate. Izzie: Who gives you belly burn. Dorie (grinning): Every time she kicks. (Meredith is dragging Steve with her down a hall way to an exam room. Bailey is follows them in) Meredith: We were just bringing him up here because he's got ah this... problem you see. He's a, a friend. (Steve sits down and removes the jacket. Bailey looks at the problem and then back at Meredith. You don't actually ever see anything) Bailey: What did your friend take? Steve: Take? Bailey: Which erectile dysfunction drug? Meredith (to Steve): You took? Steve (to Meredith): I... absolutely not. I swear. It was all natural between us. Meredith: Shut up! Bailey: Your condition is called priapism usually brought on the overuse of EDs. Steve: I didn't take anything. Bailey: Well, we'll have to take your word for it because there's no test to see if you're lying. We'll have to ah look for other causes. There will be lots of labs, lots of procedures, painful procedures. (Steve looks mortified) Procedures that might make you wish you never had a penis. You sure you don't want to change your story? Steve: I swear I'm clean. Bailey: Alright. Grey, start his work up. Get some blood; get him some meperidine for his pain. As of now your friend is admitted. (Bailey leaves. Steve half smiles at Meredith) (Derek and Burke are at a nurse's station in the hospital. Addison comes up to them and hands them both a large file) Addison: Dorie Russell, she's giving birth to quints. Derek: Yes, Richard said we were on standby. Which is no problem really, cause it's not like I have a neurosurgery department to run or anything. Addison: Aww. Burke: Yes, apparently our departments are at her disposal. Addison: Do you have time to talk to them mom now? I want her to meet all the surgeons on the team. Derek: Yes. No problem. Burke: I'll come by after I get out of the OR. Addison: Thank you Dr. Burke. Burke (calls back): Sure! (He takes the chart and leaves. Derek stands up and he Addison start walking down the hallway. He starts looking over the file Addison has given him) Addison: I didn't hear you leave the hotel room. I missed you at breakfast. Derek: I had an early surgery. Addison: You sure that's all? Nothing's wrong? Derek: No, it's like I said I had an early surgery. Addison: Ok. (Izzie is helping Dorie back into her bed in her patient room) Dorie: Uh, I feel like a beached whale. (Addison and Derek walk into the room. Derek is still looking over the file) Addison: Dorie, this is Dr. Shepherd he's our head of neurosurgery. Derek: Hi. Dorie: Oh, another Dr. Shepherd. Addison: He's my husband actually. Dorie: Seriously? Derek (smiles): Mmm Hmm. Dorie: Wow. Look at you two. Everybody must hate you. Derek and Addison (together smiling): Oh you have no idea. Addison: Anyway Dorie, Dr. Shepherd wants to talk to you about Baby C. Dorie: Lucy. (Derek puts the file down) Derek: Yes. Lucy has a condition called hydrocephalus. It is a build up of cerebrospinal fluid on the brain. Dorie: Ok and that means? Derek: Excess fluid builds up and it puts pressure on the baby's brain which could result in brain damage. (Dorie looks overwhelmed) Derek: Here's the good news. We caught it early enough. We can take care of it very quickly. Dorie: How? Derek: I'm gonna install a shunt to drain the fluid. Barring any complications you're looking at a fully recovery. Dorie: No brain damage. Derek (shakes his head smiling): No brain damage. (Izzie smiles) Dorie: Ok, really ah couldn't you have led with that? (Izzie and Addison chuckle) Derek: Good point. (Dr. Burke is sitting at a nurse's station. Cristina walks up to him and holds the key in front of his face) Cristina: What the hell is this? Burke: It's a key. Cristina: Why? Burke (smiles): Why is it a key? Are we feeling existential this morning? Cristina: Well if a key turns in a lock and no one asked for the key or even wanted the key does it make a sound? (Burke grins) (Meredith walks up to them looking desperate and tugs Cristina's arm) Meredith: Hey. Cristina: Hi. (Cristina turns back to look at Burke) Burke: I'm gonna take this opportunity to be someplace else. (Burke walks off and Cristina scoffs at him) Meredith: Steve's labs came back clean. Cristina: So? Meredith: So, someone needs to induce vasoconstriction. Cristina: Oh nice try with the fancy word. He needs an enema and the answer is no. Meredith: I can't do it. Cristina: Oh come on you let a guy you pick up in a bar see you naked and you can't give him an enema. Meredith (desperate): Totally uncalled for. Cristina: Well I am keyed up and cranky. Meredith: I would do it for you! Cristina (looks like she wants to laugh): Oh really? You would give Burke an enema? Meredith: Yes! Cristina (disbelieving): Uh huh. Meredith: Maybe. No. But that's not the point. Cristina: Ah yeah ok. Here's how it goes. I do this for you and you do every enema I'm assigned to for an entire month. Meredith: Deal! Cristina: Wow you really don't wanna do this. (Robert is sitting in his patient room on his bed. He's surrounded by various files and many bottles of water. His assistant Doyle is sitting in the room as well also looking over files. Alex is there looking over Mr. Martin's chart) Robert: You heard from the seller's agent? Doyle: I've been calling all morning. (Derek walks in) Derek: Ah, Mr. Martin. It's good to see you on solid ground. I'm Dr. Shepherd. Robert: My assistant Doyle says I passed out and hit my head. (gestures to Alex) This guy says it's some kinda cyst. I want you to say when I can get out of here. Alex: A Rathke's Cleft Cyst. Robert: Whatever. Derek: It's a congenital tumor on your pituitary. Robert: It's treatable right? Derek: You're gonna need surgery. See I'm gonna use an endonasal approach. Robert: Endonasal? Derek: Yeah. Robert: You're going to pull out through my nose? (Derek nods. Mr. Martin turns to Doyle) Robert: Look him up. Check his credentials. (Doyle nods) Derek: It's a minimally invasive procedure so there won't be any scarring. Robert: Good. So, when? Derek: Once we fully stabilize your sodium levels. Alex: That means no more water. Robert: I'm thirsty! Alex: It's a side effect of the tumor. We'll keep you hydrated intravenously. Derek: Ok. (Alex and Derek leave. Doyle stands up and starts removing the water bottles) Robert: What the hell do you think you're doing? Doyle: Uh, I'm just following doctor's orders. (Robert is silent but looks off put) (Steve is in his own patient room now, dressed in gown and everything lying on a hospital bed. Cristina is in there as well preparing the gel from the enema) Steve: I cannot believe this is happening. Cristina: Try being me. Steve: I mean you meet someone in a bar, you have a few drinks, a few laughs. You make out in the car. Cristina: Roll over to your side. (Steve moves to roll over so his front is facing Cristina) Cristina: Other side. (He rolls over the other way, with his back to her) Cristina: Bring your knees up to your chest. Steve: You have a good time. Spend the night, wake up the next morning and... (Cristina shoves her fingers up his butt at this moment) Ok! Cristina: Uh huh. (Nurse Olivia is sitting at a computer typing away. Alex is standing near her at the station looking at patient's chart) Alex: So you're still not talking to me? Olivia: You gave me syphilis. And I am talking to you; I just don't have anything to say. (There's a few seconds of silence) How's George? Alex: O'Malley's a fetus. It's all whiny and afraid of the light. So you didn't tell him you were doing me, big deal. Minimal disclosure. It's my policy. (Olivia stands up upset and takes the patient chart off Alex and walks off. Izzie comes up behind Alex and walks up close to him) Izzie: Hey. I've been looking for you. Alex: Hey. Izzie: I'm on the quints case. Alex: Yeah I heard. Izzie: Yeah they're going to need multiple surgeries once they're delivered. I put you on the pager list (she smiles) so you're in too. Alex (looks uncomfortable): Yeah I kinda got my own cases to worry about. So... Izzie: Ok Alex, was it me? Because we seemed to actually be having a normal time. A good time. Alex: Yeah we were having a good time. Izzie: Well then was it me? Was it something I did or... Alex: It wasn't you. Ok. (he shrugs) I just... just didn't feel like doing it. I was tired, you know? Izzie (smiles): Well do you feel like doing it tonight? Alex (half nods but still looks uncomfortable): I'm on call, so... Izzie: Ok, well do you feel like doing it now? Alex (intrigued): What right now? Izzie: People have sex in this hospital all the time. (Alex looks dazed and Izzie starts walking away from him backwards grinning broadly) (George enters the stair well. He runs up a few stairs and stops in front of Meredith who is sitting on some stairs) George: You hear about the quints? Meredith: Yeah I heard. George: Yeah I gotta get in on that. Meredith: Yeah well that's Addison so I'm guessing I don't stand a chance. George: So how do you break a guy's penis? (Meredith gives him a look and George sits down beside her) Meredith: You know about Steve. Why does every guy I meet come with his own unique set of nightmarish humiliations? George: Um, maybe it's a matter of volume? Meredith (accusatory): Volume? What's that supposed to mean? George: Just, you know there's quality and there's quantity. Meredith (accusatory): So you think I'm sleeping with too many guys? You think I'm some kinda slut? George: I think you're taking some risks. I think you find yourself in a hole in some guy's basement, being ordered to put the lotion on the skin or else you'll get the hose again. Meredith (interrupts): Oh come on. George: And, excuse me I'm talking. So you're not over Derek. You want to be but you're not. So try and find some replacement, some temporary way to feel better and it's not working and it's not going to work because future meaningless one night stands and problematic penises is not what you want. You want better and you deserve better. (Meredith looks at George) And not every guy is a nightmare! (He gets up and leaves) (Alex is sitting on a bed in the on-call room shirtless and Izzie is standing with her scrub pants and just a bra on) Izzie: Is it just me or... tell me it's me. Alex: It's not you. Izzie: Well then is it a medical thing? Or, or a problem? Because guys have problems sometimes. (Izzie puts on a green sweater top) Alex: I don't have a problem. (He reaches out and takes her hand in his) Get back down here. We're going to do this until we do it. Izzie (smiles): Ok. (He pulls her onto the bed and starts removing her drawstrings to her scrub pants. Izzie laughs. All of a sudden her beeper goes off. She checks it and sighs) Izzie: Uh. 911. I'm sorry. (She sits up and kisses Alex on the cheek) Damn it. (She grabs her coat and her pager and leaves the room. Alex hits the bunk bed above him in frustration) (Addison is doing an ultrasound on Dorie in her patient room. A nurse is helping her. Izzie comes in still finishing up tying her hair) Addison: Where have you been? Izzie: I um, I, I the nurse was here. (The nurse gives Izzie a look) Addison: I've loaded her up with magnesium. Start monitoring her for toxicity. (Izzie nods) Dorie: Uh it's too soon. They can't come yet. (Tom enters the room) Tom: Mom says Graham started puking. (he notices the ultrasound and moves to Dorie's side) What is it? What's going on? Izzie: Dorie's having contractions. Addison: The babies' vitals signs are stable but your placenta is laying low. We're going to have to keep a close eye on that. We want to keep them in there as long as possible. Tom: How are you keeping them in there if she's already having contractions? Dorie: It's alright hun they can stop them. You're going to trendelenburg me, right? Addison: Why yes I am. You've done your reading Dorie. (She starts packing up the ultrasound equipment) Dorie: They did it with the triplets. Gravity, remember Tom? It worked fine then and it'll be fine now. Addison: Hang in there Tom, there's no time for second thoughts now. Dorie: Tom, we didn't think we would survive the first week with the boys and we did and we'll be the same with girls. We're ready. (Tom smiles) Addison: Well that's all we can do for now. (to Izzie) Dr. Stevens are you on call tonight? Izzie: Um, no. Addison: You are now. (Izzie nods) (Dr. Bailey lifts up the sheets of Steve's bed to get a look at his erection. She makes a face as if she can't believe it's still there and pulls down the sheet. Cristina and Meredith walk into the room) Bailey: Enema didn't work. Meredith: Enema didn't work? (to Cristina) Enema didn't work. Cristina: Oh. (She looks at the enema) Well it was an excellent enema. Bailey: So what's the next step? Cristina: A needle aspiration. (Dr. Bailey nods. A look of horror crosses Steve's face) Steve: A needle? My penis? Meredith: We have to drain the blood. (Meredith and Cristina start moving around to prepare. Bailey pulls out a tray with a huge needle on it. Steve sees this) Steve (shaking his head furiously, loud): No way! No! Forget it! Bailey: Then you're looking at impotence, penile infarction or gangrene. So if you want it to fall off... Steve (closes his eyes): No. No, I really don't want that. Bailey: Well then let's get to it. What goes up must come down. (Bailey leaves the room) Steve: I feel nauseous. Meredith: Just lie back, close your eyes and try to relax. Steve: If I could relax I wouldn't be here. (Alex is walking out of Mr. Martin's patient room. A nurse comes by and take's the patient chart off Alex. Doyle walks up to Alex and meets him at the doorway) Doyle: How is he? Alex: Surgery is scheduled for tomorrow, so... Doyle: Is there anything I could do? Alex: Don't let him drink any water, even if he begs. Is there any family we should contact? Doyle: No. Alex: Friends. Doyle: He doesn't really get along well with most people. Not big on the social skills. Alex: Sad guy. Doyle: Well he has me. 3 years as his assistant. I guess I'm his friend. Robert (calls out from his room): Doyle! (Doyle hurries into the room. Alex rolls his eyes and walks off) (Meredith and Cristina are performing the aspiration. Cristina is holding a very large needle and draining the blood slowly. Steve has a look of pain on his face) Cristina (to Meredith): What if I just gave him back the key? (Steve looks at Cristina and starts listening blatantly to their conversation) Meredith: He'll be hurt. Cristina: What if I don't use it? Meredith: Well then if you had no intention of using it then you shouldn't have taken it in the first place. Cristina: Oh come on. Fishing a key out of a coffee cup isn't like some binding legal contract. Steve: Your boyfriend gave you a key to his place? Cristina (gives Steve a look and then looks at Meredith): Why's he talking? Steve: I'm just saying the guy put himself out there. He's taken the next step. You can't not use it. Cristina: Do you think you might be not in the best position right now to be handing out relationship advice? Steve: Hey, he offered the key. You took the key. Just because I'm... (he stops talking when he looks at his penis) Oh look at that. Ah. Cristina: Congratulations. You're flaccid. Steve: Never thought I'd be so happy to hear that. (Dorie, Izzie and Tom are in Dorie's room. Addison, Burke and George walk in) Addison (soft voice): Dorie. Tom. (she walks up to them) Hey Dorie. Tom. This is Dr. Burke. He's the head of cardiac-thoracic surgery and Dr. O'Malley who will be assisting him. Dr. Burke wanted to talk to you about Emily's heart surgery. Tom: Emily needs heart surgery? Burke: Yes. Your daughter has a condition called hypoplastic left heart syndrome. The surgery will be extensive and the odds are that... Dorie (interrupts): We don't believe in odds. (Izzie smiles) Burke: Good. Neither do I. But it is important that you both understand medically what's going on with your girls. Addison: After she's born there won't be much time to ask questions. So... Dorie: Ok. (to Burke) Listening. Tom: What's wrong with Emily's heart? Burke: The chambers on the left side are underdeveloped. In addition the mitral valve which connects these two chambers is abnormally narrow. (Izzie gets a sad look an her face) (Dr. Burke is on an empty elevator. Cristina gets on. The doors close so it's just them two. They both look like they want to say something but don't. Finally Burke cracks) Burke: It's a key. Cristina: Just a key? Burke: Just a key. Cristina: Well good. Good. Good. (There's a bit of a silence) Burke: Or, you can start thinking about moving in with me. (Cristina gets a look of absolute shock on her face. The elevator doors open up. She gets off without saying anything as others get on.) (Alex grabs Mr. Martin's chart from the nurse's station and heads towards Mr. Martin's room. Doyle bumps into him moving hurriedly from Mr. Martin's room looking upset) Alex: Don't mind me. (He walks into the room) Alex: What's up with Doyle? Robert: I had to fire him. Get me some water I'm drying up. Alex: Yeah well that's the tumor talking. The IV is keeping you hydrated. So why did you fire Doyle? He seemed like a good guy. Robert: I could see it in his eyes. He didn't respect me anymore. Alex: He thought he was your friend. Robert: Friend? Doyle? Alex: Oh right you don't have any friends. Robert: If I did I wouldn't let them see me like this. Illness is a sign of weakness. Once they see it they never look at you the same way again. I mean you're a hotshot doctor. I'm sure you don't let all the other hotshot doctors around here know anything about your problems. Alex (smirks): Well I'm a hotshot doctor. I don't have any problems. Robert: Probably don't have any friends either. (Alex loses the smirk) (Bailey lifts up Steve's sheets again to check his penis. Cristina peers over her shoulder to see as well) Bailey (to Cristina): Oh my lord. Ooh, Child. (Meredith walks back into the room) Meredith: Don't tell me. Cristina: The flag is flying once again. Steve: Hey, nothing I did. Bailey: Well we've tried everything. Must be neural. Meredith: Neural? Cristina (looks pointedly at Meredith): She already called for a consult. (A look of recognition dawns on Meredith's face) Meredith: A consult? (to Bailey horrified) You called neuro for a consult? Bailey: Hey it's not my fault you broke the boy's penis. (Derek walks in smiling broadly) Derek: Hello everybody. What's up? (Meredith looks sick) (Derek lifts up the sheets to check Steve's never ending erection) Derek: Hmm. (He puts the sheets down) So when did this problem begin? Steve: Well I had an erection last night and woke up with one this morning. (Meredith cringes at this. Cristina is standing next to Meredith trying not to laugh) Bailey: Uh Dr. Shepherd if you don't need me, the other Dr. Shepherd needs a consult on one of the quints. Derek (looking over Steve's chart): Yeah no we're fine. (Bailey leaves) Derek: So when did you last ejaculate? (Meredith has a look of extreme discomfort on her face. Cristina just looks at her trying not to grin) Steve: I'm not sure. (Steve turns to Meredith) Meredith? (Meredith cringes noticeably. Cristina again tries not to laugh. Derek looks up and sees both of these looks.) Cristina (hint of laughter in her voice): Oh I'm, I'm gonna go with Dr. Bailey. (Cristina leaves the room quickly) Steve: Meredith, what time did we ah? (Meredith shakes her head as if to say this is not happening) You know... sort of Derek (catches on): Yes Meredith, what time did you two... (Meredith looks at him expressionless) (Addison is with Izzie in Dorie's room. Addison is doing another ultrasound on Dorie. Dr. Bailey and Cristina are there as well. She does a printout and hands a copy to Dr. Bailey who looks over it. Cristina peers over her shoulder) Addison: Here it is. Right there. The omphalocele. Bailey (to Cristina): Yeah, look at that. Dorie: That's the scariest word yet. Cristina: All, all it means is that ah some of the baby's internal organs are growing in a sac outside its body. Izzie (admonishing tone): Cristina! Dorie (starts laughing hysterically): All it means her organs are growing outside of her body? That's all it means? Izzie: It's gonna be okay. (Dorie gets teary-eyed) Bailey: I'll remove the sac membrane containing the organs and make a small incision in the baby's abdomen and put them back inside. Dorie: Julie. (She shakes her head) She's the quiet one. (Outside SGH) (SGH Locker room)(Cristina is getting dressed to go home. Burke walks in and meets her) Cristina: What makes you... What makes you think we can live together? You don't know anything about me. Burke: I know you prefer an 11 blade for your I and Ds. I know you prefer to say pickups instead of forceps. I know you like your coffee from the cart by the front entrance better than the coffee in the cafeteria. I know you. Cristina: Those are little things. Just details. Burke: I know you..... You don't wanna move but I can't always be the one that takes the step. Any more steps and I'm walking away. (He leaves the locker room. Cristina is left looking agonized) (Olivia is knocking rapidly Mr. Martin's bathroom door that has been locked. Mr. Martin is in there and you can hear the sound of water running) Olivia: Mr. Martin? Mr. Martin. Mr. Martin, please. Mr. Martin please you heard what the doctor said! (Alex comes rushing in and tries to open the door) Robert: I don't need any doctors, I don't need anyone. Alex: Open the door Martin. Robert: I am an island, a beautiful island surrounded by water. Olivia: What do you wanna do? Alex: Shepherd gave me one job to do. Just keep this dude from drinking water. Olivia: Do you want me to page him? Alex: No I can handle this. Just go get some restraints and turn the water off to the floor. (Olivia runs out and Alex bangs on the door) Alex: Martin, open the door! (In Steve's room where Dr. Shepherd is reading from Steve's chart. Steve is lying in bed with Meredith standing at his bedside) Derek: Your CT shows a tumor on your lower spine which is pressing against your cavernous nerve which is causing the erection. (Derek looks at Meredith. Meredith looks down) Steve: A tumor. Right. A tumor. (to Meredith) So I should be scared, right? This is, this is the time for scared. (He reaches out and grabs Meredith's hand in his) Meredith (looking a little queasy): Um, it's going to be fine. (She tries to pull her hand away but Steve has a good grip) Um, Dr. Shepherd is, is gonna a schedule a surgery. (Derek notices the hand holding) Derek: Yes, I'll remove the tumor and everything should return to normal. Steve: Normal, normal? Derek: Well I have a urologist on his way up to talk to you. But yes (he looks at Meredith briefly) normal, normal. (Meredith just looks like this can't be happening) Steve: Can you call my mom? Her number is in my wallet. Tell her to come but don't tell her about the tumor. I don't want to freak her out when she has to get on a plane. Meredith: Sure, okay. Derek: How long have you two been seeing each other? Meredith (quick to answer): We're not. Seeing each other. Steve: We met last night at Joe's. (Meredith closes her eyes in horror) Derek: Joe's bar? (He half chuckles) Mmm hmm. I met a girl there once myself. (He looks at Meredith) A very long time ago. (He leaves the room. Meredith looks sick and gives a forced smile to Steve) (Mr. Martin's room, Alex is still trying to jam the door open. Olivia comes running back in) Olivia: The water's off. We'll just have to wait until he sobers up. Alex: His sodium levels will drop too low. (Alex starts slamming his body against the door to open it. He slams it open. Alex and Olivia move to go in and stop when they see Mr. Martin drinking water from the toilet bowl. He looks up and sees them. Alex and Olivia give each other glances. Mr. Martin starts to shove more water into his mouth. Alex and Olivia both move to Mr. Martin and drag him back to his bed) Robert: No! No! Leave me alone! Let me go back. I need the water! I need it! Alex: Martin, we're trying to help. Robert: I don't want your help. (Alex pins him down onto the bed as Olivia races round and places restraints on him) I don't want people to look at me. I'm pathetic. Stop looking at me! Stop looking at me! Alex: Give him 3% hypertonic solution. (Olivia nods) 500ccs per hour over the next 4 hours. We need to stabilize him. (Olivia leaves) Robert: You think you're such hot shot doctor. You're not. You're nothing. I'm gonna fire you too! Alex: Go ahead fire me. (Burke's apartment) (Burke is doing pushups with an ab wheel thing in the living room. Cristina enters the apartment using her key. Burke stops when sees Cristina) Cristina: I used the key. Burke: That's a step. Cristina: So you really wanna know me? Burke: There's nothing that you could reveal about yourself that I wouldn't want to know. (Cristina's apartment) (Burke and Cristina walk in together. Cristina dumps her bag on the floor. Burke looks slightly off put at the place. He picks up her bag and places it on a chair. The place is the biggest pigsty I have ever seen. Clothes are all over the floor and furniture. Books, papers are strewn over the entire floor. Empty take away containers are on the table) Cristina: This is where I live. My mother decorated it. I don't do laundry. I buy new underwear. And see ah under the table, 6 months of magazines that I know I'll never read but I won't throw out. I don't wash dishes, vacuum or put the toilet paper on the holder. I hired a maid once. She ran away crying. Ah the only things in my fridge are water, vodka and diet soda and I don't care. But you do. Still think living together is a good idea? (Burke is silent and gives a quick smile and continues to ponder) (Seattle scenes) (SGH, outdoor cafeteria) (Meredith and Alex are both at the coffee cart picking up coffee. Izzie comes up to them and starts making herself a cup of tea) Izzie: Hey. Addison wants me to put you guys on notice. When the quints are born we're going to need everyone available. There's gonna be 5 babies, at least 3 surgeries, we're going to need all the hands we can get. Meredith (not really there): Ok. Alex (abrupt): Fine. Izzie (confused): So, I'll just page you guys when we need you? Meredith: Ok. Alex: Fine. (They both walk off to a table. Izzie looks annoyed and continues making her tea) Izzie: Ok then. (Meredith is sitting at a table and Alex is standing) Alex: I was studying. What's your excuse? Meredith: I was staring at the ceiling in abject horror. My one night stand is a neurosurgical case. Alex (grins nodding): Heard you broke his penis. Nice. Meredith: So I'm having a lot of sex. What's wrong with that? Alex: Nothing wrong with that at all. Meredith: It only gets problematic when you start to care. When you let your emotions get in the way. (Alex looks at Izzie) You know? Alex: Yeah, right. (He walks up slowly to Izzie but his pager beeps. Izzie notices him and Alex looks at his pager) Alex: Damn it. (Alex hurries off leaving Izzie looking pensive) Izzie (to person at coffee cart): I'll just take the tea. (Alex is walking fast into Mr. Martin's room. Olivia is in there checking on Mr. Martin who looks deathly ill) Alex: What is it? Why'd you page me? Olivia: He was acting all jittery and started slurring his words. Alex: Martin, can you hear me? (All of a sudden Mr. Martin starts seizing badly. His monitors start beeping rapidly. Derek walks in. Alex and Olivia try to keep Martin steady) Alex: 2 of atavan. (to Derek) He started seizing. Derek: How much sodium did you give him? Alex: 500ccs over 4 hours. Olivia: Actually doctor you ordered 500ccs per hour over 4 hours. Derek: It's too fast. His brain is swelling. (Derek checks Mr. Martin's eyes) Derek: Why did you do a follow up? I gave you one thing to do! Alex: He's gonna be okay, right? Derek: If he's permanently impaired I can't operate on him like this. (Alex looks ill at this) (Alex is sitting on the bottom bunk of the bunk bed in the on call room. He throws a ball against wall back and forth in frustration. Olivia walks into the room) Olivia: I'm sorry. I wasn't trying to get you in trouble but Dr. Shepherd needed to know. It doesn't mean you're not a good doctor. Alex: Lately I'm crap. (Olivia sits down on the bed next to Alex) Olivia: Yeah well things have been kinda crappy for me too lately. Alex: Also my fault. Olivia (shrugs): We both made mistakes. Alex: Let me ask you something. When we were together, it was good right? Olivia: You mean? (Alex nods. Olivia is silent a bit and then lets out a breath of air and smiles broadly) Yeah. Yeah. It was good. It was really good. (Alex smiles) It was pretty great. Alex: It was wasn't it? It was like easy, simple. (Olivia lets out a chuckle. They both look at each other for a moment and then start kissing passionately. They stop) Olivia: You better have a condom this time. (Alex grins and they continue kissing again) (Meredith and Derek are in the OR operating on Steve) Derek: Ah there it is. Over the S1 vertebrae. Meredith: So removing it should fix the problem? Derek: Hmm. Doesn't look like there's any nerve damage. There shouldn't be any long term effect. I'd wait a few weeks before I tested it out though. Meredith: Funny. You're a funny man. Derek: I just didn't know you two were dating. Meredith: Well you knew it would happen eventually. Derek: Eventually feels a lot different than actually. Meredith: Yeah, I guess it does. Derek (sighs): Yeah well it's surprisingly painful. Meredith: It gets better. Derek: Does it? Meredith: Well, I dunno but I'm determined to be optimistic. (Derek is walking down the mezzanine hallway by himself. Addison is signing a chart in front of the OR board in the hallway. She hands it off to a scrub nurse. Derek walks up to her) Derek: So you officially signed your contract. Congratulations. Addison: Time to move forward. Derek: Yeah it is. (Addison stares at him) Addison: We're ok, right? Derek: Yeah we're ok. (Addison's pager goes off. She reads it) Addison: It's Dorie. (She runs off) (Addison enters Dorie's room. Dorie is moaning in pain. She's having big contractions. Izzie is looking over Dorie's uterus read out) Addison: What's going on? Izzie: There's fetal distress. Dorie: My contractions are really hurting. Uh, I think my water broke. (Addison pulls the sheet to the side and sees a pool of blood stained on the sheets) Izzie: Her placenta's tearing. (Addison nods) Addison: Ok, Dorie we can't wait any longer the babies have to come out now! (She runs out of the room) Izzie: It's okay. We're going to take really good care of you. Dorie: Yeah. Izzie: Just keep breathing. (Dorie is still having painful contractions. Addison is back there and there are 2 other nurse's helping prepare to move Dorie to the OR) Addison: Ah Dorie, the OR is prepped and ready to go. Where's Tom? Dorie (let out a moan of pain): He's at home with the boys. Izzie: No, I called Tom, he's on his way. Addison: Izzie go and page everyone on Dorie's team. The list is posted at the nurse's station. (Izzie moves to leave but Dorie clutches her arm to stop her) Addison: Dorie, Dorie, you're fine. You're gonna be fine. Dorie: Nothing about this is fine! It's too early. They're too hurt! Izzie: Dorie, you've carried your girls this far, now it's our turn. You have to trust us to bring them into the world. Dorie: Tom's on his way? Izzie (nods): Tom's on his way. (Steve is lying in a hospital bed back in his room post-op. Meredith comes up to him) Steve: Hey. Meredith: Hey. Steve: I guess I'll just have to tell you I'm happy to see you. Meredith (smiles): So, Dr. Shepherd removed the tumor without any complications. Steve: So, I just wanna thank you for being there for me. I mean, normally you don't expect your one night stand to stick by you through a tumor. (Meredith smiles) Maybe when I get outta her we can... Meredith (interrupts): I don't think so. Steve: Sure about that? Meredith: Yeah. You know when I saw you at Joe's I was just... looking for a replacement. Looking for something to make me feel better. You deserve better than that. (Meredith's pager goes off. She hears another pager go off and turns around. George is standing in the doorway. They both smile at each other. Meredith turns around and her pager goes off again.) Meredith: Sorry, I gotta go. (Cristina's apartment) (Cristina and Burke are both lying asleep, naked under a sheet on the floor of Cristina's living room. They are both woken up by their beepers going off. They both sit up and read them) Cristina: The quints. (SGH Hallway) (Addison with other doctors are moving Dorie quickly down a hallway. Izzie is there following) Izzie: Everybody answered their pages but Dr. Karev. Addison: Where is he? We need everyone. Izzie: Uh I don't know. He was on call last night, he might be asleep. Addison: Go find him! (Izzie runs off) (Alex's beeper goes off. Izzie opens the door to the on call room and sees Alex lying on top of Olivia. Izzie looks at him stone-faced) Izzie: It's time for the quints. We need you. (Izzie walks away. Alex drops his head on the bed) (In the OR room, Dorie is lying on the table. Tom is standing near her head. The OR is filled with doctors getting ready for the babies surgery. Alex walks in and notices Izzie. Derek is there looking at Addison. Addison is operating on Dorie. She sees Derek smiling at her. Meredith is staring at Derek.) MVO: How do you know how much is too much? (Addison pulls out a baby and hands her to George) MVO: Too much, too soon. (Cristina moves to stand next to Addison. George takes the baby over to Dr. Burke who starts checking her immediately. Addison pulls out the baby with her organs at her side. She hands her to Cristina) MVO: Too much information. (Cristina takes the baby over quickly to Dr. Bailey who starts operating on her immediately. Meredith takes a baby from Addison. Alex moves to take her place. Meredith places her baby in an incubator) MVO: Too much fun. (Alex takes a baby from Addison. Izzie takes his place next to Addison.) MVO: Too much love. (Tom is stroking Dorie's head. Dorie is awake during the C-Section. Derek is checking on the baby Alex brought) MVO: Too much to ask. (Izzie takes the baby from Addison and over to another incubater. All the babies are in their own incubators and are being wheeled out individually. Dorie watches them go by) MVO: And when is it all just too much to bear? (Cristina and Dr. Bailey leave with their baby. Derek follows her with his baby. Izzie is the last of them to leave. She gives a reassuring glance to Dorie who looks upset)2x11: Owner of a Lonely HeartOriginal Airdate: 12/4/2005Written by: Mark WildingDirected by: Daniel Minahan(Seattle Scenes) (SGH Courtyard) MVO: Forty years ago, The Beatles asked the world a simple question. They wanted to know where all the lonely people came from. My latest theory is that a great many of the lonely people come from hospitals. More precisely the surgical wings of hospitals. (NICU Ward) (Izzie, George, Cristina & Meredith are all in a room either standing over or sitting in front their respective quints who are in incubators. The babies are very tiny) George: I have the best quint. Lucy, she just smiled at me. Izzie: She's nine hours old, George. George: I'm saying there are 5 babies here and clearly mine is the advanced oneMeredith: Charlotte's smart. She's got wrinkles on her forehead, very serious. Izzie: Okay, A. This is not a competition and B. my quint kicks your quints' asses. Emily is strong, she won't let go of my finger. Cristina: Ah, hey! Julie has her organs on the outside of her body and she's still alive thank you. (Alex walks into the room) Alex: Kate's the best one. (Izzie doesn't turn around to face him) Izzie. Izzie: Leave. Alex: Can we please just talk? Izzie: You're too busy screwing nurses to talk. Just get out. Alex: Can someone make sure that Kate's vitals remain stable? Meredith: I will. (Alex leaves) Izzie: He's unbelievable! I am so glad I never slept with him which is his loss because I'm really good in bed. Mind blowing. Mind blowingly good in bed. Cristina: Are you trying to seduce us? Izzie (disdain in her voice): And then he sleeps with Olivia instead of me. Olivia. George: Hey, I slept with Olivia. Izzie: Yeah well then you both have bad taste. George: You know you can't say that you weren't warned. Alex has always been Alex. Meredith: You dodged a bullet, Iz, you're better off without him. Cristina: Why are you even surprised? Sleep with a snake, you get bit. Izzie (upset): Thanks, guys. For the support. (Dr. Bailey enters the room) Bailey: Who's on call tonight? Izzie: I am. Bailey: All right, the rest of you go home. Sleep. All 5 quints are still alive. It's a good day. MVO: As surgeons we ignore our own needs so we can meet our patients' needs. (Izzie watches as they all leave the room) (Meredith's house) (Meredith is lying in bed by herself awake) MVO: We ignore our friends and families so we can save other people's friends and families. (George is lying awake in bed by himself) MVO: Which means that at the end of the day all we really have is ourselves. (Quints room) (Izzie is resting her head in the babies room looking sad) MVO: And nothing in this world can make you feel more alone than that. (Burke's apartment) (Burke is sitting at the dining table reading a paper with breakfast prepared laid out before him. Cristina comes rushing in from the bedroom getting dressed) Burke: I made breakfast. Cristina: I don't, I don't have time for breakfast. I've gotta round before everyone else does if I want to get the good cases, you know that. (She puts on her coat and grabs her bag) Burke: Right. Well, coffee? (He holds up a mug of coffee for her to sit and have with him) (Cristina misunderstands and takes the cup from him, puts it into a flask to takeaway with her and puts the mug in the sink. Burke looks confused. Cristina leaves) Burke: Bye! (SGH Hallway) (George and Meredith are holding cups of takeaway coffee walking down the hallway) George: So I was thinking uh we could ah, I mean you could ah maybe ah go Joe's later, to talk by ourselves ... Meredith (interrupts teasing): Somewhere new? Somewhere to be ... (she stops and tells George to shh when she sees Addison and Derek arguing in front of them a few feet away) Addison: Cause you live in a glorified camper! Derek: 40 acres of some of the most beautiful land in Seattle! Addison: I did not give up a Central Park brownstone to come live in the forest! Derek: Addie, our house in the Hamptons had trees. You didn't mind those trees, did you? Addison: They were the Hamptons. Derek: Why are you pointing at me like that? Addison: Don't ... (Their argument trails off as Meredith and George stop walking behind them. Meredith turns back to George) Meredith: I'm sorry, what were you saying? (George looks at her and then back down the hall) George: Oh, nothing. (George and Meredith are entering the staff locker room. Cristina is standing there eating chips out of a bag. Izzie is sitting against the lockers fast asleep) Cristina: Oh, does anyone have any decent food? George: You really should eat breakfast. Cristina: God, you sound like Burke. You know sometimes I think we would be better off with dogs. Meredith: Preaching to the choir! I'm over men. George: Real nice. You know a dog is not a replacement for a human being. (Alex wanders past them) Alex (gestures to Izzie): You guys better wake her. If Bailey catches her sleeping, she's dead. Cristina: Izzie. (she kicks Izzie) Izzie. Izzie (angry): Damn it, what? Cristina (to George): Hell hath no fury like a girl whose non-boyfriend screws a nurse. Izzie: Bitch. Cristina (nods): I like you bitter and pissed off. You're almost like a normal person now. (Bailey, Izzie, Meredith & Alex are entering a patient's room. George is already in there. Patient name is Carl Murphy who has enormous swelling, pooling of blood at his nose and finger) Bailey: Okay, what do we got? George: Ah, Karl Murphy. 52. Multiple skin melanomas. Under went reconstructive surgery to his nose, right ear, as well as skin graft to the left index finger. Bailey: How's the capillary refill? George: Slow. About 4 seconds. Bailey: Ah what do you recommend to get that blood moving Dr. O'Malley? George: At this stage our best options are probably a bio-therapeutic agent. Karl: What, what is that? George: We put leeches on your face. Karl (smiles): Leeches? You don't say. Bailey: They secrete blood thinners to help break up pooled blood so it can help be evacuated. Sorta like a, a big drain. Look if this makes you uncomfortable ... Karl (interrupts): No, no, no. I've been a hiker for forty years. Almost forty years now and Mother Nature hasn't come up with anything yet that I haven't found reason to love. Bailey (smiles): You're a big outdoorsman? Karl: How do you think I got all these melanomas in the first place? (Bailey is with her group in an open ward. She pulls open the curtains and sees Derek standing over Mr. Martin unconscious taking some notes) Bailey: Oh Dr. Shepherd, you're in early if you'd like us to come back? Derek: No go ahead. Meredith: Robert Martin. 45. Collapsed and hit his head which caused a small subdural hemorrhage. Derek (he looks pointedly at Alex): That was the problem. Meredith: Mr. Martin was found to have a Rathke's Cleft Cyst on his pituitary and surgery was postponed when ... (she trails off) Alex: When I told a nurse ... Izzie (interrupts): Olivia. Alex: When I told a nurse to administer an incorrect dosage of hypertonic saline. Derek (angry): Essentially dehydrating Mr. Martin's brain. Alex: He still has chance he could wake up and be fine. (Derek gives him a look and starts moving to walk off. Alex stops him. The others listen to their convo quietly as they try to speak privately) Derek (scoffs): There is a chance. Alex: I know I screwed up, just put me back on this case please. Derek: There's not much of a case left here Dr. Karev. You saw to that. You want back on, be my guest. (They all leave except for Alex who stands close over Mr. Martin) (In the Quints' room Dorie and Tom are standing looking at their baby girls. Addison is checking one of them. Bailey and her interns come in, including Alex) Addison: Oh good here you are. Mom and Dad are anxious for an update. Dr. Yang? (Tom helps Dorie back into her wheelchair) Cristina: Ah we've done the initial surgery on Julie's omphalocele. A primary closure was attempted but there was pulmonary comprise, so we couldn't continue... Bailey (interrupts): Yang, how about we do this in plain English? Cristina: Oh, um we operated on Julie's external sac of organs and we pushed in as much of the bowel we could and we think we can push in the rest with a second operation. (Tom nods but Dorie sighs) Dorie: She has to have a second operation? Cristina: Yeah. (Dr. Bailey nudges her) Uh well not for a few days. Addison: Dr. O'Malley. George: We put in Lucy's brain shunt in yesterday and she's doing very well, but we just have to keep monitoring her to make sure the spinal fluid doesn't back up. (Addison nods) Addison: Stevens. Izzie: Dr. Burke used a catheter to open Emily's atrial septum last night. Today we're going to go in and try to reconstruct the left chamber of her heart. We're very hopeful. Addison: Dr. Grey. Meredith: Charlotte's lungs were a little more underdeveloped than the rest of the quints so we put a special mask on her to help her breathe and we're monitoring her closely. Addison : And that just leaves Kate. Alex: She seems to be pretty healthy. No major issues have been identified but we're going to keep her in the isolette till she makes it to 4 pounds. Tom: You hear that honey? Kate's doing really well. (Dorie looks despondent) Dorie: I'll be in my room. (She is wheeled out of the room by a nurse) Tom: Dr. Shepherd? Addison: It's alright Tom. She's just had 5 babies. Her hormones are all over the place. Just give her some time. She'll come around ... (Their conversation dies off as they make their way out of the room. Izzie looks on sad) (Bailey and her interns are walking up stairs in the hospital) Bailey: Grey, keep an eye on the mother of the quints. Make sure her hormones don't get the best of her. Izzie: But I can look after Dorie. Bailey: No you have ah Emily's heart surgery with Dr. Burke. Izzie: But I have a relationship with the mother. Bailey: Why are you arguing with me? Izzie: Because I don't understand why I'm being pushed off of the case! (Bailey stops walking and turns around to face Izzie) Bailey: Hey, Hey Stevens! I don't know what you're so angry about but I don't care. You better keep it to yourself. (the others watch quietly) On top of every other patient we have under our care, we've got quints to worry about, understood? Izzie (nods): Yeah. Bailey: Look these are preemie's people, they were supposed to have spent another 8 weeks in the womb. Just like interns, they're not ready for the real world. (her beeper goes) Oh, it's the pit. Yang, come with me. (Bailey heads back down the stairs with Cristina and the others head off in different directions) (Bailey and Cristina are standing outside an ambulance in front of the E.R part of the hospital. The paramedic Jill walks out to meet them) Jill: Constance Ferguson. 40. Inmate at Henderson. (she opens the back doors to ambulance) Swallowed a razor blade. Cristina: Attempted suicide? Bailey: Attempted field trip. Worked too. (Some ER doctors and Jill pull out a gurney with Constance ? played by Rosanna Arquette, screaming with joy) Cristina (to Dr. Bailey): What do you mean field trip? Bailey: It says on her chart she's was in solitary. This is her way out. Cristina: Oh is she crazy? (They start wheeling Constance into the hospital) Jill (sarcastic): If you call a murder crazy. Constance: Yeah, baby that's what I'm talking about! (Constance is lying in a hospital bed chained by handcuffs. Two policewomen are sitting outside the room. Bailey & Cristina are in the room with Constance) Bailey: Ms. Ferguson, are you experiencing any discomfort? Constance: You mean apart from these snazzy handcuffs you got pinching my wrists? Bailey (gives Cristina a look): Did you at least put tape on the blade? Constance: I'm not an idiot. Bailey: You swallowed a razor blade. (Constance raises her eyebrows at her) Bailey: So you're not going to tell me what it hurts? Constance: What and shorten my vacation? (to Cristina) Hey since you're just standing around why don't you get me some chocolate pudding? Make the blade go down smoother. (Bailey hands the chart over to Cristina) Bailey: Yang, get an x-ray. Make it portable. Prisoners so we have to minimize flight risk. Cristina: Wh, what, okay, okay but I'm supposed to check on Julie. I thought you said we were supposed to keep a close eye on the quints. Bailey: Julie is my quint too. I got that covered, you do this. Cristina: Are you sure you can't do it? Bailey: I can! I choose not to! (Dr. Bailey leaves the room) Constance: Come on baby. I'm not gonna hurt you. I only murdered three people and none of them were doctors. (George is entering Mr. Murphy's room. There's a jar of leeches on the table at the end of the bed. Nurse Olivia is already in there trying to put a leech on Mr. Murphy's nose) George: Olivia. Olivia: Dr. O'Malley. George: How are the leeches doing? Olivia: They're not. Still can't get them to bite. Carl: All this blood. Think it'd be a no-brainer for a leech. George: Sometimes they get a little anxious, bright lights (he switches off the bed side light) thunderstorms ... Olivia (drops the leech): Ooh! George: Nervous handlers. Olivia (to Mr. Murphy): I'm sorry. I should be better at this. (Mr. Murphy smiles as if to say its okay) I still get a little squeamish around leeches. George: Huh, that's not what I've heard. (Olivia gives George a look) Olivia: Dr. O'Malley can take over from here. (Olivia leaves the room and George moves to where she was standing to put on the leeches) Carl: Whoa, whoa, whoa, what was that all about? George: Nothing. (He picks up a leech) Okay. (He gets it to bite) There we are. He's in. (Izzie is standing by herself in an elevator looking stone-faced, arms crossed in front of her as the doors open. Olivia gets on the elevator and breathes out deeply to herself. The doors of the lift close) Olivia: I had no idea that you and Alex were a couple. It's just ... I was having a bad day and it was good to have someone. (The elevator dings past a floor) To talk to I mean. Not good to ... Alex really is good. (She nods) I mean he's good in the way he's a good person good. Not the other kind of good. (The elevator dings past another floor) You know good in bed, good. ... Which he is as I'm sure you know, but ... (The elevator dings open at a floor and Izzie gets off still stone faced and not saying anything) Olivia: Oh ok. Well bye. (Meredith is sitting at Charlotte's incubator checking on her in the quints' room. A nurse is there with her at Lucy's incubator. Derek walks in towards Lucy's incubator) Derek: Any temperature spikes? Nurse: No, no fever. Vitals are stable. Derek: Good, that's very good. Go ahead, after you. Thanks. Nurse: Thanks. (The nurse leaves and Derek checks Lucy's chart. George is comes to the door and stops himself from walking in when he sees Meredith in there with Derek and stays outside and watches) Meredith: So, you're giving up the trailer? Derek: I'm not giving up the trailer. Is Addison telling people that I'm giving up the trailer? Meredith: It's just funny, I just never would have pegged for that guy. Derek: What guy? Meredith: You know the marble bath, private pool, gated community guy. Derek: Don't peg me. I'm not peggable. Meredith (smiles): You're pegged. Deal with it. (All of sudden Charlotte's heart monitor starts beeping rapidly. The nurse comes rushing in and Meredith stands up quickly and Derek rushes over. George enters the room. The nurse opens up the incubator) Nurse: BP's low. She's tachycardic. Derek: Sats? Nurse: Dropping on high flow O2. (Meredith is checking Charlotte with a stethoscope while the nurse uses a manual respirator pump on Charlotte) Meredith: No breathing signs on the right side. Derek: Her lung has collapsed. George: Should I call the other Dr. Shepherd? Derek: No time. (to Meredith. He holds up a thin tube) Here stick this between her 2nd and 3rd rib. Do not go too deep. You're gonna hear a small gush of air. (Meredith takes the tube and does it. A small gush of air is released and the heart monitor stops beeping rapidly) Meredith: I heard it. (Derek sticks in his stethoscope from the other side to check Charlotte's breathing) Derek: Nice job. Meredith: Thank you. Derek: I'm not giving up the trailer. Meredith (smiles): Whatever you say, Dr. Shepherd. (George stands and just watches) (Dorie's patient room. Dorie is sitting on her bed with Tom standing near her. Meredith is there talking to them. Dorie has her back to Meredith) Tom: Her lung collapsed? Meredith: And I know it sounds scary but it's really not that uncommon in a preemie this size. So we've inserted a tube into Charlotte's chest and that will help her breathe until her lung can stay up on its own. (She looks at Dorie) Mrs. Russell? (Tom's phone rings and he checks it) She really is doing fine now. Tom: That's me, I gotta go. My mom can only handle the triplets for half a day. She's 74, so... Meredith: Mmm. Tom (to Dorie): I'll call you as soon as I get home, ok? (Dorie nods) I love you. (She smiles half heartedly as he kisses her forehead. Tom moves to leave the room but stops to talk to Meredith) Tom: Could you? Meredith: I'll keep an eye on her. Tom: Thank you. Meredith: Ok. (Tom leaves and Meredith walks over to stand in front of Dorie) Meredith: Dorie, this isn't your fault. You can't blame yourself for this. Dorie: I've got one baby who can barely breathe and one with half a heart. Two of the others are ... (she sighs while Meredith looks at her sadly) If I'd have listened to the doctors I could've had 3 healthy girls instead of 4 who might not live until tomorrow. It was my decision. Tom agreed with the doctors. So really Dr. Grey, who else should I blame? (Meredith is silent unsure how to respond) (Dr. Burke and Izzie are in the scrub room adjacent to the OR getting prepped for Emily's heart surgery) Izzie: First step in the Norwood is the cardio pulmonary bypass. Burke: With HLHS what else do you get besides hyperplasia of the ventricle? Izzie: Stenosis or atresia of the mitral and aortic valves. Burke: Why are using the RV-PA conduit instead of the modified Blalock-Taussig shunt? Izzie: It limits diastolic run off. Burke: Well you've done your homework. Izzie: I was on call last night. I study when I'm on call. Burke (chuckles): Well, no matter the books say, I guarantee you; you've never seen a heart this small. (Izzie notices Alex standing outside in the hallway) Izzie (mutters to herself): Bet you I have. (Bailey is checking on Julie in the quints' room) Bailey: How you doing you? You know I'm having a baby too. (she puts on a baby voice) Yes I am. A little boy. Maybe you can meet him someday. How does that sound? Does that sound good? (Cristina is standing the room quietly. She lets out a little hem hem and Bailey turns around to see her. Bailey closes the incubator and clears her throat talking normally now) Bailey: Pregnancy has not made me soft. I haven't got soft. I don't do soft. Cristina: Of course not. You were just talking to a patient. (She walks up to Bailey with some x-ray films) Bailey: What's this? Cristina: The inmate's x-rays. (Bailey takes the film to hold up and look at) Bailey: Uh! That foolish, foolish, woman! She swallowed 4 razor blades! Cristina: Mm-hmm. (Constance is sitting agitated in her room by herself. She notices nurse standing outside) Constance: Hey! Hey you! Hey nurse! (The nurse walks in) Nurse: Would you keep it down please? Constance: I'm starving. Nurse: You're NPO. No food allowed. (Constance looks at the television program playing in her room) Constance : Come on April baby don't go for him. He's such an idiot. (the nurse stares at her and she turns her gaze back at her) I didn't come here to starve to death. I want mint chocolate chip ice-cream! Mint, okay? Not rocky road! You better not get me that rocky road! It sucks! (Bailey and Cristina enter the room) Constance: Oh thank god, mama bear help me out here ok? I'm starving. Bailey: Don't give her anything. (The nurse leaves) Constance: See right there you're in official violation of the 8th amendment. Cristina: Uh you can't eat anything because you're about to undergo major surgery. Constance: What? (to Bailey) What's she talking about? Bailey: You're at risk for a perforated intestine and half a dozen kinds of infection. We need to operate right away. Constance (scoffs): I don't need an operation. I taped up the blade like I always do. It passes the next day. What's the big deal? Cristina: You swallowed 4 blades this time. That's the big deal. Constance (shrugs): I Thought it'd buy me an extra day. Does this operation have a nice long recovery time? (Bailey shakes her head less than impressed) Cristina: You realize this is major surgery? It's dangerous and you could die. (Constance is silent and just stares at her) Constance: Mint chocolate chip. I want at least a gallon once you ghouls are done splitting me open. (Bailey and Cristina leave) (Dorie and Meredith are outside the quints' room. A nurse and doctor are in there already. Meredith is helping put a gown on Dorie) Dorie: What exactly is it that we're doing? Meredith: We're visiting. We throw all this medical talk at you and outlined all these worse case scenarios which has probably scared you half to death. One thing we haven't done is actually given you a chance to be with your daughters. (She wheels Dorie into the room. The two people in the room leave) Dorie: How's that gonna help? If I've learned anything in these last few days is that I need to face reality. (Meredith wheels her next to an incubator) Meredith: Here's Kate. You can reach in and touch her if you like. Dorie: I would like to very much. (Dorie reaches in tentatively and strokes Kate's fingers. All of a sudden a heart monitor starts beeping rapidly. The nurse from earlier enters) Nurse: Dr. Grey, Charlotte's not breathing! (Meredith and the nurse rush over to Charlotte's incubator. The nurse opens the incubator and Meredith gets out her stethoscope to check Charlotte) Meredith: Page Addison Shepherd. She's in the OR (Dorie watches anxiously from her wheelchair) (Addison, Burke & Izzie are operating on Emily in the OR. Various other doctor's and scrub nurse's are there) Addison: We didn't see this on the echo. Burke: You can never get an exact measurement. Izzie: What? Burke (sighs): The baby's aorta is narrower than we thought. The diameter is only a millimeter. Just not getting enough blood flow. Addison: Damn. Burke (to Addison): I wanted you to see this before I started closing up. (Addison nods) Izzie: You're closing up? You didn't do anything. Addison: Dr. Stevens. Izzie: No! We barely started! Addison: Dr. Burke has done as much as he can do for now. So unless you know how to do a 1st stage Norwood, he's gonna close this baby's chest. (Addison's pager goes off. She looks at and leaves) (Izzie sighs shaking her head) Burke: You ok? Izzie: I'm fine. May I go? Burke: Yes. (Izzie moves away from the surgery) (Addison enters the quints' room hurriedly) Addison: What happened? Meredith: She had an apneic episode. She's still not breathing on her own. (Dorie looks startled at this.) Addison: Let's intubate and give her surfactant. Push 0.1 atropine and 3mg of ketamine. (They all start moving quickly to intubate Charlotte) Nurse: Meds are in. Addison : Tube. (They continue fixing the intubation) Okay, place the CO2 detector. Meredith: She was doing fine with the chest tube. Addison: That's the thing with RDS cases. (She gets her stethoscope to check the baby) We think the baby's getting better. They slip right back. Breath sounds equal. Good. (Meredith looks up suddenly) Meredith: Mrs. Russell. (She looks over to the spot where Mrs. Russell was before but there's only an empty wheelchair there) (In an OR Bailey and Cristina are operating on Constance. Bailey pulls out a razor blade. Bailey sighs) Cristina: Unbelievable. Who would do this to themselves? Bailey: The woman wasn't just in prison Yang. (She puts the blade in a dish held out by a scrub nurse) She was in solitary. Cristina: Well, she's seriously deranged. Bailey: You try spending a month, locked in a room with no windows, no one to talk to, 23 hours a day. (She pulls out another blade and discards it) See how deranged she is then. Cristina: Dr. Bailey, she's a murderer. Bailey: I didn't say she wasn't. (She pulls out another blade and counts them) 1, 2, 3. I said try to having no one to make your snarky comments to for a solid month. My guess is (she pulls out another blade) you'd swallow the entire razor. (George is entering Mr. Murphy's room) George: How are they treating you Mr. Murphy? Karl: Oh, I've done worse for company. George (checks the leech on Mr. Murphy's finger): Oh they're definitely filling up. Tissue is getting nice and pink. Karl: Did you make up with that cute little girlfriend of yours yet? George: Olivia is hardly my girlfriend. (He moves to check the leech on Mr. Murphy's ear but it falls off. He picks it up) Karl (looks at the giant leech in George's hand): Is she ok? George: She? Karl (he nods at the leech): Isabella. (George looks down dumbfounded) This one here on my finger, that's Darcy. And that little guy on my nose, named O'Malley. (He chuckles. George half smiles still a little creeped out) That's right. I named him after you. You're the one that got him to bite. George: Isabella's fine. She's just full. Karl: Oh. (George moves to dispose Isabella) Wait. What are you going to do with her? George: She's done her job. We don't really have any more use for her except as medical waste. Karl: No. I'd like to keep her. If I could. (George just stands there and stares at him) (George is rummaging through the Medical supply stands of the hospital in a hallway) George (to himself): Crazy nature man. You want to take a leech home as a pet. That's fine with me. (Olivia walks up to him) Olivia: You had no right to speak to me that way in front of a patient. George: Yeah, well you hurt my friend. Olivia: I had no idea Alex was seeing Izzie. That's not what you're upset about. George: You have no idea why I'm upset. Besides you know what I don't understand is why Alex? (he turns to face her) And why again? Olivia (nods and shrugs): People get lonely, George. (Meredith is on the phone at the nurse's station outside Dorie's room. She is watching Dorie from there) Meredith: Hi, Mr. Russell. It's Meredith Grey calling. I was wondering if there was any chance maybe you could bring your boys by to visit there mom. I think she could use the company. (Dorie looks despondent) Oh the flu. No definitely don't bring them. Thank you. You too. (Alex is sitting taking notes and looking through text books sitting in front of his quint, Kate in the quints' room. No one else is in there. Meredith walks in and then walks up to him) Meredith: You've been lying low. Alex: Well nobody's talking to me so it makes it kind of easy, right? Meredith (pulls up a chair and sits next to him): I'm talking to you. In short mono-syllabic sentences laced with disdain and contempt. Alex: So what according to girl rules, now you all have to hate me? Meredith: I don't hate you. If my mother hadn't gotten Alzheimer's I'd probably be you. Alex: Well, really? Meredith: Really. Before she got sick, I mean, I'd finished college but I was partying way too much and staying out way too late to keep a job. I was the one at family reunions everybody was embarrassed to talk about. Alex: So that's what you think of me? Meredith: Are you ok? Alex: I almost killed a guy yesterday. Meredith: Mr. Martin? Alex: So I'm just trying to find anything I can to help him. (Meredith grabs a textbook from him) Meredith: Ok, well what are we looking for? Alex: Ah anything on central pontine myelinolysis. (They start looking through the books. Just then Izzie walks in straight past them to check on her quint. They look up at her. She turns around slowly and gives Meredith a look as if to say how could you do this) Izzie (shakes her head): Unbelievable. (Izzie leaves the room) Meredith: Izzie. (Alex half chuckles at the situation of it all. Meredith sighs and gives Alex the book back. Alex sighs as well looking low. Meredith gets up to chase Izzie) Meredith: Izzie, come on. (Meredith is following Izzie down the hallway adjacent to the quints room) Izzie (angry): Come on, Come on? You're fraternizing with the enemy and you tell me to come on? Meredith: Alex and I are sort of friends. (Izzie stops walking and faces her) Izzie (angry): Since when? Since when are you and Alex friends? You tell me to cut my losses. That I'm better off without him and as soon as I turn my back ... (She turns around and starts walking again with Meredith following) Meredith: Izzie, you're making way too big a deal out of it. (She stops again and turns to face Meredith) Izzie (angry): Right of course, because I'm the unreasonable one. You know what Meredith do whatever you want. Sleep with the guy for all I care. (She turns around again, walking off) Meredith: Well obviously I'm not going to sleep with him Izzie. Izzie (angry): Why not you slept with everyone else? (Meredith stops walking after her instantly and gets a look on her face and turns around and heads back down the way she came) (Cristina is talking to Constance after the surgery) Cristina: Your surgery went smoothly. You'll have some abdominal pain for a day or two. Constance: Just a day or two? Cristina: We'll watch you until your bowels start moving again. The average is about 36 hours. Constance: 36? 4 razor blades and that's all you can give me? Come on sugar plum I thought we were having fun. (Cristina makes to leave the room at this) Constance: Don't' leave. (Cristina turns around) Cristina: What? Constance: Just maybe a little conversation? They got me here in all by myself. I thought I'd have a roommate. Somebody to talk to. Cristina: Ok. (She walks up to Constance's bed side) Why'd you kill 3 people? Constance (sarcastic): Start off with a little small talk why don't you? (Cristina makes to leave. Constance speaks quietly) I was high. On meth. ... And I had this boyfriend who had this robbery all planned out. He said that he would leave me if I didn't help him. Things got out of control. (She sighs) He was gonna leave me. (She nods) He was all I had. I would've been all alone. Cristina: Clearly being alone has its benefits. (Cristina shakes her head slightly and leaves. Constance just rests her head against the pillow sad) (George is smiling entering Mr. Murphy's room, he stops when he sees Olivia standing there. There are few giant leeches in little jars at the bed table with name tags on them. George walks up to the opposite side of the bed, facing Olivia. Mr. Murphy watches with interest) George: You paged me? Olivia: Another leech fell off and I can't get the new one to bite. I'm sorry they just really freak me out. George: I'm a surgeon Olivia. Olivia: You're an intern George. (George grabs the container with the leeches roughly and starts getting out one) Karl: You know what time it is? ... Time for you two kids to kiss and make up. That's what time it is. George: Mr. Murphy, we are not a couple. Karl: Oh you can't pull much over on me. And I say there's something between you two. Olivia: You're right Mr. Murphy. There was. George (looks up shocked): Olivia. This isn't the time and this really isn't the place. Olivia: He broke up with me for this girl who doesn't even know he's alive. George: She does so know I'm alive. Olivia: Listen to me George. You, Meredith Grey, never gonna happen. George (dazed): Wh, why, why, why would you even think it's Meredith? Olivia: Anyone who's playing the slightest bit of attention knows how you feel about Meredith! Except Meredith! Which should tell you something shouldn't it! (She puts down the patient file she was holding) Sorry Mr. Murphy. (She leaves the room quickly. George looks back at Mr. Murphy) George: She gave me syphilis. (Addison is sitting in chair in Richard's office facing Richard who's sitting at his desk) Addison: Remember what you did to me? When I was an intern? Richard: How could I forget? You didn't speak to me for almost a year. (Addison is silent looking away) But you learned. Addison: Yeah well I think I gotta do that to Izzie Stevens. Richard (half nods): Well she's smart, hard working. (he gives Addison a look) Gets a little too involved with her patients. A lot like you. Addison (stands up): I know. It took me a long time to recover from that Richard. Richard: But it made you a better surgeon Addison. (Addison nods) The question is, is she talented enough a surgeon to make the lesson worth it? Addison: She's the best I've seen in years. I was hoping that we could ... Richard (interrupts): You're not here to make friends Addison. You're here to make better surgeons. ( Addison nods looking down) Being a teacher can be a lonely business. (She nods again and walks out) (Izzie, George and Cristina are sitting at a table in the outdoor section of the cafeteria eating dinner) Izzie: I'm telling you Meredith was all over him! Cristina: Seriously? She was all over him? (She looks at George) What like a, mounting him? With all the babies watching? Seriously? (Izzie rolls her eyes) Izzie: Well she would've been if I hadn't interrupted. George: She was talking to him. Izzie: You don't talk to bastards that cheat on their girlfriends George! That's the rule! George: You weren't officially his girlfriend. Izzie: That's not the point. George: It is kinda the point. You don't see me getting all emotion over people I'm not dating. Izzie (raises her eyebrows and gives George a look): Really? You wanna go there? (There's a short silence) George (realization dawning): No. Izzie: I'm having a moment here! Don't mess with me! Cristina: You're not gonna have a nervous breakdown and kill yourself are you? Izzie: No. Cristina: So there's no chance you'll kill us? (She gestures to herself and George) (Izzie gets up and walks off in a huff) George: Oh that was wrong on so many levels. Cristina (chuckles): So good. George (smiles): Yeah, that was ... that was good. (Cristina starts laughing) Cristina: It was good. It was good. (Meredith is standing in the quints' room over Charlotte's incubator looking at an x-ray film) Meredith: Your lungs are not good. (she puts down the film) I know we got you out of there a little earlier than you would've wanted. We have to find something to help you. So if you have any ideas Charlotte... (She looks up and sees outside in the hallway Addison giving Dorie some news. Dorie breaks down crying holding her head in her hands) (Izzie is filling in a patient's chart at a nurse's station. Addison walks up to her dressed to go home) Addison: Dr. Stevens. Izzie: Ah Dr. Shepherd, is there something you need? Addison: Yes, Dr. Burke and I have reassessed. We think that there's a chance with the Norwood if Emily can make it through the next 10 hours. Would you look after her for the night? Izzie: I was on call last night. (Addison just looks at her) But I mean yeah, of course. Addison: Good, good. I've left a list of meds and ah you're familiar with pediatric life support? Izzie: Got myself certified as soon as I got in the program. Addison: Ok then. (She moves to walk off) Izzie: Is there anything else I should know to look out for her? Addison: No that should do it. Izzie: Uh should I notify Mrs. Russell about the... Addison (interrupts): No! I've done that. Dr. Stevens this baby is your responsibility. She better be alive when I get back in the morning. Izzie: Ok. (Addison walks away looking a bit unsure about the thing she is doing) (Derek is dressed to go home at the front entrance of the hospital walking to the entrance doors. Alex comes running after him with pages of notes) Alex: Dr. Shepherd I found these studies of the use aggressive plasmapheresis. I think these could work on Mr. Martin. Derek: Those are all isolated cases. Alex (sighs): Well, still the studies have resulted in approved clinical symptoms. Derek: No, no. No trial studies have been done. There's nothing you can do. Alex: Okay what about thyrotropin? Derek: No. No. Alex: European studies ... Derek (interrupts): Karev it's over! It's done. You screwed up. Mr. Martin's fried. You fried his brain. He wakes up; you put him in a wheelchair. He dies, you killed him. ... Deal with it. (He walks out of the hospital) (Izzie is in the quints room injecting a drug into Emily's IV. A nurse comes in with Emily's chart) Nurse: Dr. Stevens, baby's VO2 is still 40% after transfusion. Izzie (nods): How's her BP doing? Nurse: Still low. Last systolic was 52. Izzie: Okay I'm gonna push 30ccs of NS manually. (She injects the NS and the baby's BP starts rising on the heart monitor) Nurse: Nice start. Pressure's 65. (Izzie sighs and sits down in front of the incubator. The nurse leaves. Meredith walks in and stands in front of the incubator next to Izzie. She turns to talk to her) Meredith: Hey Iz. Izzie: Ok, really? You think I'm talking to you? Meredith: Well I just wanted to say I'm sorry. Izzie: What are you sorry for? (Meredith is silent and Izzie shakes her head) Izzie: When Derek broke up with you I never once said you're better off without him. It's not supportive, it's condescending. I was there. All I ever am is there for you guys and the one time I need you ... Just go away Meredith. (Meredith walks out) (Constance's room where Constance is choking. A nurse is already there. Cristina runs in) Nurse: She was fine. She just started seizing. (Cristina grabs a hold of Constance and looks down her throat) Cristina: She isn't seizing, she's choking. (She gets out a paddle stick and sticks it in Constance mouth to hold down her tongue and see what she's taken. She manages to pull out a piece of bloody glass. She looks down and around and sees a smashed lamp) Cristina: My god, she swallowed a light bulb. (Constance starts choking even worse. Cristina and the nurse try to stick a tube down her throat) (Constance is wearing a oxygen mask and her heart monitor is beeping rapidly. She is still choking) Nurse: We're losing her. Cristina: I can see that. Don't you think I can see that? (Cristina is checking her breathing with a stethoscope) Cristina: She needs an airway. (They pull down her bed and a nurse hands Cristina a silver instrument) Cristina: Ah she's clamped down. I can't intubate. (She calls out to the hall) We need some help in here! Nurse: You want me to get paralytics to relax the muscles? Cristina: Ah, no she'd be dead by then. (She grabs a manual respirator pump) Cristina: I need a scalpel for a crich. Nurse: You done one? Cristina: Of course not! Go! (The nurse leaves. Burke walks in and checks Constance with his stethoscope) Cristina: I was gonna do a crich. Burke: How long has she been unconscious? Cristina: She just went down. Burke (to another nurse): Prep O.R 2 for an emergency throacotomy. Nurse Right away. Burke: Cristina, she'll be okay. Come on, Come on, come on. (He gestures for them to follow and he leaves) (A nurse runs into the quints' room with Izzie still there sitting in a rocking chair) Nurse: She's coding. Izzie: Again. Ok uh, uh turn up the epi drip. (The nurse turns up the epi drip and Emily's BP rises again) Izzie: Ok. Ok. Ok. (She sits down at Emily's incubator and strokes her) (Meredith is entering Dorie's room. Dorie looks like she's packing) Meredith: Hey, Dorie. What are you doing? Dorie: I'm packing. Meredith: Dorie, you've just had major abdominal surgery. You're not in any shape ... Dorie (interrupts): I'm going home Dr. Grey. I need to go home. I can't be here. I can't watch them die. Meredith: They're not dying. They're trying to live. And you leaving them isn't going to help them. Dorie: I have 3 boys who need me. Meredith: Your daughters need you. Dorie: Don't you understand that I can't do it? I can't do it! They're too sick. They're too hurt. Meredith: Which is why they need their mother. Dorie: If Emily dies ... Meredith (interrupts): If Emily dies it will be horrible. But if Emily dies and you're not here ... Dorie: I can't even hold them. Meredith: But you can sit with them and talk to them and let them know they're not alone in this world. That's all they need. That's all that anybody ... (she trails off, a look of dawning comes across her face) Dorie: What? Meredith: I think I know how to help Charlotte. (She leaves the room with Dorie looking after her) (Meredith is in the quints' room disconnecting Kate from her incubator. Dorie is standing behind her in a pink gown looking over her shoulder. Izzie is also in there at Emily's incubator watching) Meredith: I don't know why I didn't think of this sooner. Dorie: What are you doing? Meredith: It's called co-bedding. Hospitals sometimes do it with twins when one of them is sick. Dorie: And the other one gets better? Meredith: It helps. Dorie: How? Meredith (she removes Kate from the incubator): We don't really know. Sometimes babies get stressed in the ICUs from all the activity. (She moves Kate into Charlotte's incubator where Dorie is standing) Meredith: This way there's someone there to comfort them. To be there with them. (She re-connects Kate's tubes while Dorie looks over her two babies) (Karl's room. There are jars of several big leeches swimming around. None are on Mr. Murphy any more. George is there checking on him) George: That's excellent blood flow in all three places. You're healing very nicely. Karl: And I like my new nose. (George picks up the patient chart and starts writing in it) George (notices the wedding ring): Well I'm sure your wife will like it too. Not too sure about what she'll say about your new houseguests. Karl: Oh I'm gonna let these guys go in the lake on my favorite hiking trail. Saved my face, least I can do for 'em. And I don't have a wife. George: Oh, I'm sorry I thought your wedding ring. Karl: No, I'm divorced. Just never took it off. George: By the way, ah sorry you had to see that little scene earlier. Karl: Oh you mean talking with the girl who isn't your girlfriend about the girl who'd you like to be your girlfriend. George: Yeah. Did she, she shouldn't have said that stuff. Did she, she, is just very unprofessional. Karl: Yeah. (he puts a hand on George's shoulder. George immediately stops writing) But is it true? (George just looks at him) Do you like this Meredith person? George (discomfited): I don't think that's really any of your business. (Mr. Murphy gives him a look) She's ok. I like her ok. (Mr. Murphy just sits there) All right I love her. Karl (chuckles): Oh come on don't be embarrassed. I loved my wife. But sometimes no matter how much you love someone they just can't love you back in the same way. (He now places his hand over George's hand) Karl: Believe me son. Living with a woman who can't love you back, way lonelier than being alone. (Izzie is in the quints' room with the nurse. Emily is coding again) Nurse: What do you wanna do? Izzie: We can, we can put her on ECMO. Nurse: Baby this size, you're risking intercranial hemorrhage. Izzie: Uh, it she's already coded 3 times. You paged Dr. Shepherd? Nurse: She called to say you have to handle this for yourself. Izzie (frustrated): What? I, it's, I'm an intern! Nurse: Dr. Stevens. Izzie: Just give me a second. Nurse: You don't have a second. Izzie: Okay, um ECMO is too dangerous; we just have to keep her going on epi. Nurse: Too much epi and you'll stop her circulation. There's no point in keeping her heart rate if she doesn't have functioning arms or legs in the morning. Izzie (angry): Yeah, I know that! (She pauses more calm) I'm sorry. It's just, we just going to have keep pushing epi. It's our best option. We'll just have to fina middle ground. (Izzie takes over for the nurse with the manual respirator) Izzie (to Emily): You can do this. (Sunrise) (SGH Hallway)(Meredith is standing on the mezzanine balcony hallway looking through the large window/wall at the sunrise. Derek walks up and stands next to her) Meredith: I can't believe you would consider moving out of your trailer. The view alone. (Derek nods) Derek: See the mist rise off the lake. Meredith: Yeah. Derek: Yeah. (silence) I'm not moving. (Meredith nods) Meredith: You're still you? Derek: I'm still me. Meredith: Good. (George is watching them from a distance in the outdoor caf?) (Izzie is fast asleep in front of Emily's incubator, except Emily is no longer there. The nurse from last night is checking on the other babies. Izzie wakes up) Izzie: Where's Emily? Nurse: They took her away. Izzie: Where? Why didn't you wake me? Nurse: Dr. Shepherd told us not to. Izzie: What? (she huffs) Where's the baby? Nurse: Dr. Stevens, she died half an hour ago. (Izzie looks horrified) (Seattle Scenes) (SGH) (Izzie is standing watching Dorie holding one of her quints in her own room. Addison is there and sees Izzie. She walks out and pulls Izzie to follow her down the hall away from the room. They stop walking and Addison turns to face her. Izzie looks distraught) Addison: It wasn't your fault. Izzie: You put me in charge. I fell asleep. I killed that baby. Addison: No, you didn't. She was going to die anyway. She had a restricted atrial septum and virtually no aorta. As soon as Dr. Burke opened up her chest we knew she didn't have a chance. Izzie (shakes her head, upset): I don't get it. You order me to stay the night to take care of her. I worked my ass off doing CPR, pumping her full of every drug on the planet and, and ... I mean god do you have any idea how scared I was? It was all for nothing!?! Addison: Hardly. If the situation ever comes up again I know you'll be able to handle the pressure. Izzie (angry): You lied to me! Addison: You have to learn distances, Stevens. You'll be a better doctor for it. Izzie (disbelievingly): A better, a better doctor? (She shakes her head angrily at Addison and walks away. Addison looks unhappy after her and sighs) (Bailey is entering the quints' room. Meredith is in there already looking over Charlotte and Kate's incubator. There are various other nurses in there as well. Bailey walks up to Meredith) Bailey: Heard you worked a miracle last night. Meredith: She came around so fast I thought the equipment was malfunctioning. Her sats are completely stable. Bailey: She's gonna make it. (she looks at the two quints) Go home Grey. You've earned it. And Grey, way to go. (She leaves) Meredith (to the two quints): Did you hear that? Way to go. (Izzie is sitting despondently in the staff locker room dressed to go home. Her hair is all wet from a shower. George walks in with Cristina and Meredith close behind. Meredith is the only other dressed to go home. Cristina and George sit on either side of Izzie. Meredith stands in front of her.) Izzie: My baby died. George: We know. Izzie: She just ... died. (They're all silent) Meredith: I have an idea. (Izzie looks up at her and Meredith holds out her hand. Izzie takes it and they walk out) (Alex is sitting in a chair watching over Mr. Martin who's still unconscious. Derek walks by and sees Alex there. He looks at him thoughtful) Derek: First person I killed, I was a second year resident. James Hanson. You should go home Alex, there's nothing you can do here. Alex: Nobody should die alone. (Derek nods and leaves) MVO: 400 years ago another well known English guy had an opinion about being alone. John Donne. He thought we were never alone. (Cristina is standing in Constance's patient room at her bedside. Constance is hooked up to a lot more monitors. The 2 cops are standing inside at the door way) MVO: Of course it was fancier when he said it. Cristina: Don't, don't try and talk. Your windpipe was perforated. Dr. Burke repaired it and you should be fine. ( Constance reaches out to take Cristina's hand but Cristina backs away) Uh we'll keep you here at least 10 days for observation. Make sure there's no infection. (She moves to walk off but then turns back quickly) Maybe just to be on the safe side we'll make it 2 weeks. (Constance smiles thankfully at Cristina. Cristina smiles and leaves the room) MVO: No man is an island entire unto himself. (Meredith and Izzie are walking past a long fence in kinda of an industrial place. They stop suddenly and bend close to the fence) Meredith: Oh. That's him. Izzie (smiling): Yeah that's him. (Derek is sitting in an empty gallery overlooking an empty OR. He's writing notes in a patient chart. Addison walks in and sits next to him) Addison: I'm lonely, Derek. (He puts the chart away and they look at each other) MVO: Boil down that island talk and he just meant that all anyone needs is someone to step in. (In Burke's apartment, Dr. Burke is sitting eating breakfast. Cristina walks in and stands in front of him for a few seconds before deciding to sit down as well. She takes a slice of his toast and takes a bite of it. He looks at her and then smiles down into his plate) MVO: And let us know we're not alone. (Izzie and Meredith are in the townhouse living room holding up a blue soft toy playing keepings off with a dog. They're laughing and having a blast) Izzie: Get it. Good boy! Good boy Doc! Meredith: Ok! MVO: And who's to say that someone can't have 4 legs. Someone to play with or run around with. (George walks in to the nearby hallway dumbfounded by the presence of the dog. Izzie throws the blue bear into his hands. The dog runs barking at George who runs off. Izzie and Meredith laugh) (Kate & Charlotte are lying asleep in their incubator) MVO: Or just hang out.2x12: Grandma Got Run Over By A ReindeerOriginal Airdate: 12/11/2005Written by: Krista VernoffDirected by: Peter Horton(Meredith's house) (Meredith is coming home to the townhouse after walking their dog, Doc. It's pouring outside) MVO: It's an urban myth that suicide rates spike at the holidays. Turns out, they actually go down. (Izzie is decorating a massive Christmas tree in the living room. Very, very impressive) MVO: Experts think that people are less inclined to off themselves when surrounded by family. (Meredith is entering the house. Doc runs into the living room and Meredith stands in the hallway astounded by the level of decorating Izzie has taken. George comes in his pajama's looking half asleep and stands next to Meredith also taken aback by the decorations) George: Looks like Santa threw up in here. Meredith (nods): Just... go with it. We're being supportive. Izzie (finally notices them): Oh, hey! What do you think? (They both fake smile back) Did I go too overboard? Oh, I know, I know sometimes I can go a little overboard. (Meredith and George speak at the same time) George: No, we love it. Meredith: It's great. Izzie (big ass smile): Oh yay! I love Christmas. Meredith: We know. George (forced smile): Clearly. MVO: Ironically, that same family togetherness is thought to be the reason depression rates actually do spike at the holidays. (Izzie turns back to decorating the living room. Meredith and George give each other looks. Izzie turns around and gives the another big smile) MVO: Yeah, okay Izzie doesn't count. (Burke's apartment) (Burke is sitting at the kitchen bench, reading a newspaper and drinking coffee. Cristina comes rushing in dressed ready to go work and heads to grab coffee to go. She smiles at Burke and instantly stops when she sees a tiny little undecorated Christmas tree standing on the coffee table. She gives Burke a look. He turns and sees what she's giving him the look for) Burke: I ... thought you might like to help me decorate it tonight. Mark our first Christmas together. Cristina (pours coffee into her mug): I'm Jewish. (Burke takes a large swallow of his coffee) Burke: Seriously? Cristina: My Step-father. Saul Rubenstein. (She grabs her keys and heads to the door) Burke: Oh right. Right. (She leaves the apartment) Burke: Right. (He looks slightly off put and looks back at his Christmas tree) (SGH) (Bailey is looking quite pregnant walking down a hallway. She's taking a few deep breaths. Meredith, George, Izzie, Cristina and Alex tailing follow her a few feet behind her) George (to Meredith): Look at her belly. She's almost as wide as she is tall. (Izzie grins at this) Meredith: Are her ankles swollen? Is that why she's waddling? Izzie: What's gonna happen to us when she goes on leave? Cristina: Leave? She's going on leave? Meredith: What do you think happens when people push babies out of their vaginas? George (chuckles): Do you think we're gonna get a new resident? Cristina: What? Alex: Nah. Probably just let us all walk around unattended. See how much damage we can do. (They stop walking as Bailey has stopped at a nurse's station still a few feet away.)Izzie: Yeah, well you would know. (Izzie rounds to the front, suddenly smiling) Hey you guys, we should all get together and get Bailey a Christmas gift for the baby. Or we could um organize some sort of secret Santa thing. Cristina (looks less than impressed): Ok, listen Tiny Tim you can take --- (Meredith and George move quickly to block Cristina and interrupt her loudly) George: Sounds great. Meredith: Secret Santa sounds great Izzie. Izzie (smiles): Ok. (She turns around and starts heading off to Bailey. George and Meredith turn to face Cristina. Cristina has a 'what the hell' look on her face) Meredith: We're being supportive. (They are all walking down another hall but this time Meredith is the one lagging. Derek is close behind and calls out to her) Derek (solemn): Hey. (Meredith stops and waits for him) Meredith: Hey. You ok? You seem ... Derek: Yeah. (He sighs) You know ... Holidays. Meredith: Oh, yeah. I do know. Derek: Hmm. (She walks off) (Tim Epstein's patient room. He is a new patient. His wife is sitting on a chair nearby and his 3 young boisterous kids are playing around the room. Derek is in there and Bailey and her interns walk in) Meredith: Tim Epstein, 38. Fell off the roof of his house. Tim: I was stringing Hanumas lights and ah a shingle came loose. Izzie: Hanumas? Tim: Hanumas. Chrismakkuh. We ah go all out. Izzie (broad smile): Awesome. Mrs. Epstein: He fell 12 feet. Tim: Ah good news is my head broke my fall. (One of his daughters flings a rubber lizard which smacks Derek's face) Meredith: Ah there are no visible deformities but he's definitely having some focal left arm weakness. Mrs. Epstein: He'll probably be fine. He's always been a little hard-headed. (Mr. Epstein chuckles but quickly moans slightly in pain) Derek: Does your head hurt when you laugh? Tim: Is that a bad thing? Derek: Do you wanna follow my finger with your eyes, please? (He moves his finger from side to side in front of Mr. Epstein's face. Mr. Epstein's son, Jake jumps of his bed and jumps onto the adjacent one and sits up in front of Bailey) Jake: I know karate. Bailey: Mmm Hmm. (He whacks the jug sitting on the table which Izzie quickly removes) Ah. (Bailey moves quickly away to where Mrs. Epstein is sitting) Bailey: You know your husband might need a little ah quiet so there's a cafeteria right down the hall ... Tim (interrupts): No, no, no. Let them stay. Pain or no I don't want to miss out on the holidays with my kids. Derek: Who would like to take ah Mr. Epstein down for a CT? (Only Izzie puts her hand up very eagerly) Derek: Stevens it is. (Patient's room with a young woman named Nadia Shelton lying in bed. She is surrounded by various family members who are speaking loudly. Nadia looks exasperated but is quiet. George walks in with her chart. The chief walks also walks in up to her bed. And Bailey, Alex, Meredith and Cristina follow) George: Ah, Nadia Shelton. 41. Scheduled for excision of her gastric ulcer. (He hands the chart over to Richard) Nadia's mother: Lot of good it's done us. She's been scheduled for three days. Nadia: Mom. It's not his fault. Jimmy (her husband): Everyday, she gets rescheduled for some emergencies. Richard: Yeah well we're very, very sorry for the inconvenience. Nadia's Mother: Inconvenience? You watch your child spend 3 days in pain and then come and talk to me about inconvenience. Richard: We get a lot of trauma cases at the holidays. Your daughter's ulcer is serious but it's not critical. Ernie (Nadia's father, pointing to the tv that is on loud): Is that? Is that the news? Jimmy: Are you saying that my wife is not important? Is that what he's saying? Is that what I hear. (Everyone starts talking loudly and all at once) Richard: Alright! Uh, Dr. O'Malley prep Mrs. Shelton for her ulcer excision which will happen this morning! (He leaves) Nadia's Mother: Thank you! Ernie, Ernie! I am so happy! We're going to go the Needle! (Everybody leaves aside from George. Nadia is left looking a little unsure) (Bailey, Cristina, Meredith and Alex are walking down a hospital hallway) Bailey: Grey, Karev cover the pit. You can expect all sorts of holiday idiocy so that is my gift to you. Yang ... (Burke who walks down the hallway up to Bailey and the gang, interrupts) Burke: Dr. Bailey, UNOS just called. They have a donor heart for a patient of mine. (Cristina, Alex and Meredith jump at this) Cristina: I'm free. I'm totally free right. Alex: I can totally do this. Meredith: I'm free. Alex: I'm available. (Bailey gives Alex and Meredith scolding looks) Bailey: No you're not! You're covering the pit. (she turns to Cristina) Yang, it's yours. Cristina: Thank you. Bailey: Pit! (Alex and Meredith wander off down the hallway) Alex: Damn. Heart transplant. Would've liked to have seen that. Meredith: There's always tomorrow. Alex: Yeah, well maybe for you. Meredith: Meaning? Alex: I re-take the boards tomorrow. Pretty sure I'm gonna fail. Which makes today my last day here and I get to spend it doing stitches in the pit. (He walks into the male's toilets) (Burke and Cristina are walking down a hallway. Cristina is taking notes) Burke: So when does Hanukkah fall this year? (Cristina looks up surprised) Cristina: Uh, no idea. Burke: Oh. Well if there any more traditions you want me to be aware of ... Cristina (interrupts): Oh no Burke seriously, I haven't observed religious holidays since I was old enough to know better. (Burke looks off put by this and Cristina walks off) (Burke and Cristina are entering a patient's room. This is the heart transplant patient, a small young black boy named Justin. His mother is there with him) Burke: Good morning Justin. Marion. Marion: Morning. Justin: Hi Dr. Burke. Burke: I'm here with good news. Great news. Marion (smiles): You don't mean that ... Burke: UNOS called. We have a heart. (Marion smiles and chuckles happily) Burke: I'll operate this morning. Marion: You hear that baby? Santa Claus is bringing you a new heart for Christmas. Justin (looks annoyed and turns to Burke): Tell that fat ass to give it to someone else. I don't want it. (Burke and Marion look uncomfortable at this while Cristina just looks on amused) Marion: Sorry Dr. Burke, he's tired today. Justin: I'm tired everyday. I hate Christmas everyday. And I rather not have another stupid operation. Burke: Justin, I know surgery can be frightening but you need this heart. You've worn out your last one. Cristina: His last one? Burke: Justin had a heart transplant as a baby but his heart hasn't aged as well as he has. You understand that Justin? Your heart just can't keep up with you anymore. You need a new one. Justin: I don't care. I don't want it. Burke: Can you tell me why not? (Justin just looks down. Burke looks at Marion for answers but she is silent) (Bailey is walking down the OR hallway up to Richard who's standing in front of an OR board) Richard: Anxiety attacks, aneurysms and ulcers. Bailey: Huh. Must be December. (Patricia, Richard's assistant walks up to them) Patricia: Chief, Adele just called. Richard: Tell her I'm in ... Patricia (cuts off Richard): She knows you're not in surgery and she said to tell you, quote "We are going to our niece's school pageant this morning. You have known about it for months and after what you pulled on Thanksgiving" (Bailey grins madly) and then she started to use a great many words that I don't feel comfortable repeating. Richard: I have 7 surgeons on vacation. Patricia: And there was something about divorce. (Richard contemplates this grudgingly) Richard (to Bailey): You'll have to cover my ulcer excision. Bailey: Yes, sir. (Richard starts walking down the hallway with Patricia) Richard: Woman is unreasonable! When did watching a 6 year old dressed up like a wiseman .... (His voice trails off as he gets further away from Bailey who looks tiredly with her arms cradling her head at the O.R board) (Meredith and Alex are at the emergency doors outside leading to the pit. An ambulance officer pulls down a man lying on a gurney) Paramedic: Male. 44. Had a gastric by-pass. 3 weeks post-op. Reported extreme pain when we found him. Said something about fruitcake. (Meredith checks the patient) Meredith: Must've torn his abdomen wide open. (She turns back to Alex) You're going to have to fight me for this one. Alex: He's all yours. My parting gift. (He walks away despondent. Meredith just looks after him) (Derek and Addison are walking down a hallway. Addison is excitedly looking through a Christmas catalogue while Derek walks beside her looking less than enthused) Addison: Ok for your mom, I got a lamb's wool blanket, hand made in Edinburgh. It's soft, comfortable and says don't hate me for hurting your son except with fabric. Derek (tiredly): Addie, you know my mom loves you. Addison: No, she used to love me. I got a lot of ground to make up for with these gifts. (she holds the catalogue to Derek) So what do you think? Plain or plaid? Derek: Uh I dunno, whatever you know. Addison: But you love Christmas shopping. Derek: I'm just really not in the mood for it right now, ok?Addison: Ok well how about French food and Scottish catalogues tonight around 9? Derek: Uh, um I guess that depends what time I get out of here ... (Izzie who is scanning the hallway a few feet away and is obviously looking for someone calls out) Izzie: Dr. Shepherd! Derek: What?Izzie: I have Tim Epstein's CT scans back. Derek: Ah good. (He quickly walks away from Addison and over to Izzie eager to get away from the situation. Addison stops smiling and looks on disappointed) Derek: What do you think? Izzie: It's not great Derek: Oh no that's not great at all. (Nadia Shelton's room. Her annoying family is still there. George is in there) Jimmy (holds a catalogue up to Nadia): Honey-bunny what do you think of this scooter? George: Ah I need to take her blood pressure. (Josh, Nadia's son is playing his gameboy loudly while his Grandfather, Ernie yells at him. Mrs. Shelton also starts speaking loudly. Nadia just looks upset) George (tries to talk to Nadia): Any questions about the surgery? Jimmy: Apart from when you're actually going to do it. George: We're doing it now. Jimmy: Good. Nadia (to George quietly): I'm sorry. Jimmy: Don't apologize. George: Do you have any questions? Nadia: No. I've had 3 bleeding ulcers in the last 5 years. Jimmy: Yeah, I hope you read the chart. George: Yes. Jimmy: Good. (Alex is studying on a hospital bed in the abandoned hallway hangout) (Meredith enters the Scrubs room adjacent to an O.R. Bailey and George are in there preparing for Nadia's surgery) Meredith: Dr. Bailey, gastric perforation just came in. Bailey: Damn. (George has look that says this can't be happening) Uh, um alright. (She pats George) Take Mrs. Shelton back to her room. George: Seriously? Bailey: Do I look like I'm kidding? Tell her we'll get to her this afternoon. (George heads into the O.R annoyed) Grey call the E.R, tell them to send him up and then scrub in. (Meredith nods) Meredith: Ah, Alex Karev failed his boards and he's re-taking them tomorrow. He can't study for a practical by himself. If he fails again he's out. Bailey: Ok, go. (Meredith runs off. Bailey presses the intercom button and speaks into the O.R) Bailey: O'Malley. George: Yeah? Bailey: After you drop her off, get back here and scrub in. George: Alright. Bailey: Ok. (O.R where Justin is lying on a table ready for surgery. The anesthesiologist is trying to put the mask on Justin to put him to sleep) Anesthesiologist: Okay, Justin ... Justin: No, I told you I don't want the heart. Why are you doing this? (Cristina who is in there walks up) Cristina: Cause you need it. And until you're 18 your mother calls all the shots. Justin: My mother is a liar. You heard her. She said the heart came from Santa Claus. She shouldn't get to decide anything. Cristina: Yeah, well you could make a run for it but the heart you have won't get you very far. (Burke enters the OR) Burke: Are we ready? Anesthesiologist: Just about. Burke (to Justin): How bout you buddy? Are you ready? Justin: If I die in this surgery can you give this heart to some other kid? Burke: Not gonna happen Justin. Not on my watch. (The anesthesiologist puts the mask on Justin) Anesthesiologist: Here we go. (Justin falls to sleep) (Mr. Epstein's Room. His two young daughters, one named Leah are sitting on his bed with him; Mrs. Epstein & Jake are lying down on an empty bed next to them) Daughter: And it was only one day of oil. Tim: And then what happened? Leah: It lasted 8 whole days and nights! Daughter: And it was a miracle! Jake: I wanted to say that part! (Izzie and Derek knock and enter the room) Izzie: Mr. Epstein, I'm sorry to interrupt. You remember Dr. Shepherd? Derek: Um, should we talk more privately? Mrs. Epstein (shakes her head): Just tell us, is it bad? Derek: The fall has caused a subdural hematoma. Leah: I don't even know what that means. Derek: That means your dad ... his brain is bleeding. Leah (looks down upset): Great. Derek: Look, there are some risks to the surgery, it has to happen before the bleeding gets worse. Mrs. Epstein: What kind of risks? Derek: The bleed is uh in an area of the brain that controls the um speech and the motor control. Jake: We don't need operation, ok? Tim: You know, Jake I think we do. (Derek shakes his head to Izzie) Mrs. Epstein (to Jake): Hey honey, you know something else? Jake: What? Mrs. Epstein: We have a doctor named Shepherd. Tim: Shepherd. Is that a sign from God or what? (Derek looks a little weirded out by that comment. Izzie just smiles at him) (OR with Justin's surgery. Dr. Burke and Cristina are there performing the surgery. Burke has finished placing the transplant into Justin) Burke: Look at that. Beautiful fit. Now all we have to do is to figure out why he is so angry. Cristina: If I had that mother I'd be angry too. (A nurse passes a surgical tool to Burke) Actually I do have that mother. Burke: His mother is not the problem here. She loves him, she never leaves. Cristina: She also never listens. She doesn't know him. Burke: Justin's depressed. You heard him. He doesn't want to live. I just hope he changes his mind before it's too late. Cristina: Uh what do you mean too late? Burke: With all medical realities being equal, why does one patient live and another dies? I believe there's a mind-body-spirit connection. And if Justin really doesn't want this heart, his body will reject it. Cristina: Ok, let me get this straight. You don't just celebrate Christmas, you actually believe in Santa Claus? (The scrub nurses and interns watching all look amused at this and give each other looks) Burke: Dr. Yang, go and schedule a psychiatric consult for our patient. Cristina: We're, we're not done here. Burke: You are. (The scrub nurses and interns again give each other looks. Cristina sighs and moves away from the operating table) (Deserted hallway, hospital hangout. Meredith is lying on a bed, pretending to be a patient while Alex paces up and down hall walking by the bed) Meredith (in a creepy old woman's voice): I don't know. It hurts here and here and back here. (Alex stops walking in front of the bed) Alex: Any chance you got hit by a truck and forgot about it? (Meredith sits up and speaks normally) Meredith: You're judged on bedside manner Alex. I wouldn't be surprised that's why you failed the last time. Alex: Could you be any more patronizing? I didn't ask for your help. Meredith: Enough with the ego! You big baby! I gave up a surgery for this! (she lies back down and goes back to creepy old woman's voice) Now like I said, it hurts here, and here and back here. Oh and this morning I noticed my poop was a funny grayish color. (Alex looks less than amused) (Bailey and George are in the OR, operating on the gastric perforation guy) George: Wow, that's all you can save of his stomach. Bailey: Yup. Eating is what this man lives for. We should put him out of his misery. George: Paging, Dr. Karevian. (Everybody in the OR laughs except Bailey) Bailey: What did you just say? George: Just, it's a joke. Kevorkian, karevian. (Bailey just stares at him) Alex Karev. Bailey: I get the joke. I just don't think it's funny. (She holds up a scalpel) You see this O'Malley. I make one mistake with this scalpel and this man's dead. My husband, he makes mistakes at his job all the time. As far as I know he's never killed anyone but I have and you will and Alex did. He made a math mistake and a man died for it. Run that past your accountant. See how he'd feel if every mistake he made, someone ended up dead. You don't have to like Alex, you don't have to care about him, but you damn well have to be on his side. (George just stands there, looking sufficiently told-off) (Derek is in the OR with Izzie, just starting to operate on Mr. Epstein) Izzie: What a great family. Hanumas. Chrismakkuh. And how cute are those kids? Derek (sarcastic): Really Dr. Stevens. Chrismakkuh. Izzie: I think it's sweet. Derek: Do you happen to know what time of year neurosurgeon's are the busiest Dr. Stevens? Izzie: No, there's a time of year? Derek: Well there's no hard or fast rule but brain injuries tend to pile up around the holidays. Like our friend here. Folks fall of their roofs while they string up lights or they go skating for the first time in a decade, break their heads open. (Izzie looks slightly ill at this and looks worse by the time he stops talking) And every year people drive through blizzards to get to parties where the kiss germ-infected strangers under poisonous mistletoe and then they get so drunk they smash their heads against their windshield on their way home. Like I said, there's no hard or fast rule. (Deserted /closed down hallway. Alex is pushing against Meredith's stomach) Alex: Does this hurt, Mrs. Grey? Meredith (old voice): Yes Doctor. Alex (reaches under her back): How bout here, does it hurt here? Meredith: Yes it does. (Cristina walks in to the hallway and stops when she sees the previous scenario before her. Her mouth hangs open in shock) Cristina: Okay, seriously if you're that lonely there are excellent vibrators. I can give you a catalogue. Meredith (normal voice): He failed his medical boards. I'm helping him study. Cristina (walks up to them): You failed your practical? Alex: Glad to know you can keep a secret, Grey. Meredith: I kept your secret; it didn't do you any good. He needs our help. Cristina: Oh, you're not serious. Meredith: What if it were you? Cristina: It wouldn't be. Meredith: But what if it were? Cristina: It wouldn't be. (Meredith gets paged. She gets up off the bed) Meredith: I have to go. Be a patient. Do it for me. Cristina: Fine, but when Tiny Tim goes all Norman Bates on us, I'm blaming you. (Meredith walks to the end of the hall and calls out) Meredith: Diagnosis? Alex: Gall-stones. Meredith (thumbs up): Yes! (She leaves. Cristina sits on the bed Meredith just vacated and sighs) Cristina: I'm a 55 year old man. I'm nauseous and I can't stop throwing up. Alex: Forget it alright, I didn't ask for anybody's help. Cristina: Okay Evil Spawn, you can nurse your pride; key word being nurse or you can pass your test and be a doctor. Up to you. Alex (sighs and stands in front of her): Any abdominal pain? Cristina: Yes from my giant fat belly all the way to my back. Oh and I'm drunk. Hiccup, hiccup. (Meredith is entering the scrub wash room with a chart. George is already in there as is Bailey who's sitting down and eating a chocolate bar) Meredith (hands Bailey the chart): I got another one for you. Bailey: He tried to gift wrap a 70-inch TV for his wife? George: Hernia? Meredith: Strangulated. Pretty ugly. Bailey: And you just know the wife just hates TV. Grey is that other project covered. Meredith: I think so. Bailey: Then scrub in. O'Malley, go tell Nadia Shelton she's off the schedule until tomorrow. (George looks upset at this) (Nadia Shelton's room where her boisterous, noisy family are still being annoying and creating a huge racket) Jimmy (shocked): Till tomorrow? Nadia: Another day is not gonna kill me Jimmy. George: I promise tomorrow for sure. Nadia's Mother (outraged): Today was for sure! Ernie: What's he saying? Nadia's Mother (yells): He's saying they can't operate until tomorrow! Ernie (yells): Outrageous! (There's all this loud talk and yelling. George looks annoyed) George (speaks to Josh playing the really loud gameboy): Could you please turn that down your mother needs to rest. Josh: Who are you? My Dad? George: Sir, could you please tell your son--- Jimmy: Don't talk to me about my son. Who the hell do you think you are? George: Sorry. I'm really sorry. (Mrs. Shelton and Mr. Shelton are still yelling loudly) I just think your wife should rest ... (Nadia looks grateful at the attempt but the noise of the family is just too loud) Nadia's Mother: You people, you have ruined everything.George: I am very sorry. (George just leaves the room) (Deserted hallway where Alex is now what it looks like feeling up Cristina. Or at the very least groping her boob. Cristina backs up) Cristina: Okay the way you're grabbing me now, that's assault. (She grabs his hand, flattens his palm and uses the tips of his fingers to press against her chest) Cristina: This is an exam. Pat, pat, pat. (George comes into the hallway and looks dumbfounded) George: What? What the hell? (loud) Does Izzie know? Does Burke know about this? Cristina: Un-bunch your panties, George. We're helping Alex study. (to Alex) Do it. George: I can't hear you when his hand is on your boob. Cristina: Take your hand off my boob, Alex. (Alex removes his hand) George: Thank you. (he walks up to them) Study for what? Alex: Shut it, Yang. Cristina: Alex failed his boards. George: Seriously? Alex: I failed one part of one board. That's it. George: Still...that's pretty embarrassing. Cristina (She gets paged): Eh, he's all yours Georgie! Do your worst. (She gets up and leaves) George: You're not giving me a rectal. Do not ask me to cough. (Cristina is walking up a nurse's station outside Justin's room where Dr. Burke is standing after Justin's surgery looking over a patient chart) Cristina: You paged me? (She peers into Justin's room) Burke: I didn't see a psych consult scheduled here. Cristina: Ah I couldn't get one. I tried to but they told me to come back in January. Burke: You disrespected me. You mocked me in my OR. That can't happen. Cristina: I wa ... It won't happen again. Burke: You equated my spirituality with a belief in Santa Claus. Cristina: Burke, science is the one thing. You know it's the one thing we have in common. I'm an intern and you're not. I'm a slob and you're not. I say I want to keep our relationship private and you go and tell the Chief of Surgery and you asked me to move in with you and now you're religious. Burke: Spiritual. There's a difference. Cristina (shakes her head): Well not to me. .... I don't know what we're doing. Burke (looks angry): Well right now we're working. Page me if he spikes a fever. (Cristina shakes her head in dismay that Burke is ignoring what she's saying) Tell Mrs. Davidson to hire a private therapist or priest, anyone Justin will talk to. (He slides the chart over to her and walks away) (Izzie is walking down the hallway, where she finds Mrs. Epstein with her three kids sitting on some chairs) Izzie: Mrs. Epstein? Mrs. Epstein: Oh (she stands up and walks to Izzie) How is he? Izzie: He's gonna be fine. He's still a little groggy. (Jake interrupts) Jake: My Dad wants to see me now, ok? Izzie (smiles): Ok. (She starts walking down the way she came and the family follow to Mr. Epstein's room. They stop at the doorway) Mrs. Epstein: It's ok guys. Daddy's ok. (One of the daughter's runs into the room and jumps onto the bed) Daughter: Daddy, daddy. I could kiss it better Daddy. Tim (to his wife): Jillian I have a headache. (Mrs. Epstein nods) Leah: I'll sing for you Daddy. Tim: No. Leah (sings): Dashing through the snow ... Tim: No! Leah (continues): ... on a one-horse open sleigh ... Tim: Leah. Damn it Leah shut up! (Leah stops and immediately starts crying) I can't stand that insipid song! Mrs. Epstein: Tim! Tim: Just get out! (Derek walks in) Tim (yelling): Get out! Get the hell out of here, all of you! Jake (upset): You stupid Shepherd! You broke my Dad's brain! (Izzie and Derek are walking down a hallway) Izzie: How did that happen? I mean his personality ... you didn't go anywhere near the frontal lobe. Derek: Well the CT might've missed something. Or a personality change could be a reaction from the anesthesia wearing off. Could be the pain. Izzie: He was in pain before the surgery. (Derek heads into a stair well) Derek: Watch him for a couple of hours, if he doesn't improve get a new CT. (Derek starts walking down the stairs) Izzie (gets a look on her face): Ok. (Derek catches the look and walks back quickly) Derek: Dr. Stevens? Izzie: You had his brain open. Literally open. He was laying there unconscious and vulnerable and ... Derek: You think I poisoned him with my anti-holiday venom. Izzie: Well you're the one that's always saying that there's a lot about the brain that we don't know. How do you know that your words didn't speak to him on some unconscious level? I mean he trusted you to be his ... Shepherd. (Izzie seems surprised at her own choice of words) Derek: Dr. Stevens, you should be a little embarrassed. Izzie (nods): I am. Derek: Good. (He walks down the stairs and Izzie leaves back the way they came) (Justin's room, where his mother is decorating his room with Christmas decorations and a Christmas tree. Cristina walks in) Cristina: Oh this is the CCU. There are no trees allowed in the CCU. Mariann: I know, it's never really been enforced, so ... (Cristina looks off-put at this) How's he doing? (Cristina walks up to Justin's bed) Cristina: Ah surgery went smoothly but it's too soon to tell. Mariann: He's really a good boy you know. You just met him at a difficult time. He's been down. I don't know why. (Cristina checks Justin's heart with a stethoscope) But Father Michael will be able to talk to him. Cristina: No offense but uh your son doesn't seem to be a fan of the holidays. He doesn't believe in Santa. Mariann: Yes well a mother's job is to protect her child's innocence. And this Christmas could be his last time, so. Justin: That's what you said last year. And the year before that. (Justin gives Cristina a look) Mariann: Oh my baby, you're awake. You look great. My big, strong boy. Santa brought you back to me. (Cristina looks thoroughly annoyed now and unplugs the Christmas tree lights and starts wheeling out the tree of the room) Mariann: What are you doing? Cristina: Sorry. CCU regulations. (Operating room with Bailey and Meredith, operating on the strangulated guy) Meredith: Are we using mesh? Bailey: Yes, the conjoined tendon is ... (She pulls away suddenly from the surgery and puts the surgical tools down and moans) Mmm Hmmm Mmm. Meredith: Dr. Bailey? Bailey (raises her hand to silence Meredith): Just wouldn't want to throw up in the body cavity. Nurse: Dr. Bailey, are you all right?Meredith: Do you need ...? Bailey: I just need a minute Grey. Oh when you operate the rest of the world goes away. Hunger, thirst, pain. You don't feel it in the OR. But it's not that way when you're sharing you're body with another person. Ok. (She turns back to the surgery and starts again) Meredith: Are you sure you don't want me to find someone to take over for you? Bailey: What I want you to find me is a strawberry milkshake. Extra thick. (The operating staff look amused at this) Meredith: Seriously? Bailey (nods): Yeah, nausea. Comes with the hunger, Grey. Go. (Meredith leaves the operating table) (George is sitting on the hospital bed in the abandoned hallway with Alex sitting next to him, 'examining' him. George is talking in the most horrible ghetto voice ever. It's hilarious) George: My throat, it's like wicked sore yo. (Gestures to his face) Plus I've got all these like sick breakout's, right. Alex: Dude seriously. (George instantly stops smiling, stands up and starts walking away) Alex: Alright, alright, sit down, sit down. (George moves back and sits down. Alex stands up) Alex: Open up your mouth. I'd like to inspect your tonsils. (George opens his mouth and sticks out his tongue. Alex gets a tongue presser and a flashlight to examine his throat. Izzie comes into the hallway and looks stunned at what she's seeing) Izzie: What's wrong with you are you sick? (Alex stops examining him) George: Fake sick. (Izzie just looks confused) Alex: I failed my practical board exam. O'Malley's helping me study. Izzie: You failed your .... (to George) You're helping him? George: Just to study. Nothing else. Alex: Izzie. Izzie: No, you don't get to say my name (she points her finger at George angry) and you are unbelievable! (Izzie storms off. George gets up and starts chasing after her but turns back to Alex) George: Ah! I was doing mono, the whole fever and glands thing. The acne was just part of the whole teenager thing. (George sprints off after Izzie) (Izzie is walking up the stairs leading away from the hangout and starts walking down a hallway. George is close behind her.) George: Izzie would you wait. Izzie (yells): I say I like the guy and you can't stop hating him. And as soon... George (interrupts): Izzie. Izzie (yells): ...as he screws me over... George: Izzie! Izzie: You're his new best friend! George: He failed his boards. This is important. Izzie: He cheated on me. Meredith (walks up behind them with the milkshake for Bailey): Busted? George: Yeah. I'm busted. Meredith: His exam is tomorrow. Izzie (even more angry): You're in on this too? He cheated on me! God! Cristina (walking down hall opposite from them with a Christmas tree): Oh, I told you she'd find out. Izzie: Oh, of course you're in on it. George: She let him touch her boobs! (Cristina hits George with the Christmas tree) Izzie: He cheated on me with George's skanky syph nurse! George: That is just plain rude! Meredith: We know! He cheated on you! That's why we let you turn the living room into Santa's freaking Village. Izzie: What? Meredith: We're not big on holidays you know that. But we're trying to be supportive because you are having a hard time. But right now, Alex, he's having a harder time. Izzie: Why does everyone care what kinda time Alex is having? Meredith: Because he's dirty Uncle Sal. (Both George and Cristina turn around and give Meredith weird looks) George: Sorry? Cristina: Huh? Meredith: He's dirty Uncle Sal. The one who embarrasses everyone at family reunions and who can't be left alone with the teenage girls but you invite him to the picnic anyway. Cristina: Sorry. What? George: I'm still lost. Meredith: I have a mother who doesn't recognize me. As far as family goes, this hospital, you guys are it. So, I know you're pissed at Alex but maybe you could try and help him anyway. Sorta like in the spirit of this holiday you keep shoving down everybody's throats. (Izzie shakes her head and walks off. Meredith also walks off in the opposite direction) Cristina: You. George: What? Cristina: Boob! (Cristina walks off and George's pager goes off) (George rushes into Nadia Shelton's room, where Nadia is sitting up vomiting blood into a bucket. Her family are going nuts) Jimmy (yelling): Somebody do something! Doctor get in here now! (Everybody is talking and yelling at once. George rushes up to Nadia) George (to Nadia): Nadia we're taking you to surgery. (Nadia nods and George turns to the nurse holding the bucket) George: Prep her now! (The nurse nods and George rushes out of the room) (Meredith is walking down the hallway with the strawberry milkshake. She enters the scrub room where Bailey is sitting waiting. Meredith hands her the shake) Bailey: It's about time. Meredith: Sorry, I got side-tracked. (Bailey takes off the top of the milkshake and just drinks it directly from the cup. George rushes into the room) George: Nadia Shelton's ulcer perforated. She's vomiting blood by the pint. Bailey: Is the Chief back? Meredith: I didn't see him. George (shakes his head): No. Bailey (frustrated): All right uh both of you scrub in. I'm gonna need all the help I can get. (She starts drinking massive gulps of her milkshake not stopping as Meredith and George start scrubbing up) (Derek and Izzie are in the CT viewing room looking at the images on the screen as Mr. Epstein lies in the CT machine) Derek: Well, there it is. Left side of his frontal lobe. (to Izzie) Now why didn't we see that before? Izzie: Intra-cerebral bleeds can have a delayed presentation. Derek: Right. (to CT tech) You wanna get him out of there? (CT tech nods and heads out of the viewing room) Derek: Ah just prep an OR. I'm gonna talk to his wife. (Izzie nods and heads out as well. Addison comes and stands at the doorway.) Addison: Dr. Stevens. (Izzie ignores her and continues out the door) Addison (calls out): Nice talking to you. (to Derek) Think she'll ever talk to me again? (Derek is silent, staring at the CT screen) Am I invisible? I'm feeling strangely invisible. (Derek is still silent) Also inaudible. Derek: What? (Addison walks into the room and stands over Derek's shoulder) Addison: Another surgery? So I guess dinner-shopping is out. Derek: Yeah, it's not gonna happen tonight. (Addison nods) Sorry. Addison: No, you're not. I'm just trying to figure out why you're not. It's Christmas Derek. Derek: Yeah. I know. (He stands up and starts heading out of the room) Addison: It's our season. What's going on? Are you mad? Are you depressed? What? Derek: No. Mr. Epstein here is depressed. He's bleeding from his frontal lobe. Everything's fine. We're fine Addie. You know just, I'll see you at home, ok? (He heads off, leaving Addison looking upset) (Mr. Epstein's room where he's lying down on his bed. His wife is standing beside his bedside looking upset. Derek is standing at the foot of the bed) Derek: You need second surgery, Mr. Epstein. Frontal lobe is difficult. We may be able to improve things but ah you should be prepared for the possibility that things could get worse. Tim (anger in voice): That's great. That's just great. I am so glad we came to this hospital so I could be treated by a bunch of quacks who don't know their asses from the inside of my skull! (Mrs. Epstein looks apologetically at Derek. Derek gestures at her to talk outside the room. They walk out into the hallway) Mrs. Epstein: This isn't my husband. This is not my husband. He doesn't speak to me this way. He doesn't speak to anyone this way. Derek: I know this is difficult Mrs. Epstein but the important thing right now is that we stop the bleeding. Mrs. Epstein (trying not to cry): He's the love of my life. And I know that you have a lot of other patients and you do a lot of other surgeries but he's the love of (she lets out a sob) my life. Because I just, I just need your word that you treat this change in my husband's personality as seriously as you would a fatal cancer. Because that's the way it feels to me and my kids. We were happy. We were a happy family. It just ... if you could just fix it (she takes Derek's hand in hers) ... just fix it. Derek: Mrs. Epstein, I'm going to do everything in my power, all right? Ok? (Mrs. Epstein nods) (Cristina is standing at the nurse's station outside Justin's room watching Justin talk to a priest in the room and his mom sitting at his bedside) Justin: I didn't want it. I already got one new heart. I didn't deserve another one. Father Michael: Justin, you don't have to feel guilty about having a new heart. God wants you to live. That's why he sent you the heart. Justin: I'm not stupid, ok? God didn't send me the heart and there's no such thing as God. Marion (shocked): Justin! Father Michael: Marion. Marion, it's all right. Justin: The heart I have now, my mom told me the heart came from Santa. (Cristina walks in and check's Justin's vitals) I thought elves made it in their factory or whatever. But that's not true, is it? Father Michael: No it isn't. Justin: Yeah. I heard the nurses talking. Where it really came from is some other kid. Some other kid had to die so I could live. Marion (crying): Oh Justin, baby. (She sits on the bid. Cristina walks out of the room) Justin: And then I outgrew that kid's heart. So for the last two years my mom has been praying that another kid would die for me. (to his mother) That's what you pray for all the time, isn't it mom? (Marion just looks down and doesn't answer) That's what she prayed for father. How does God feel about that? (Justin closes his eyes) Father Michael: Justin. Marion: Justin. (Justin's monitor starts beeping rapidly. Cristina hears the beeping) Marion (shaking Justin): Justin baby? Wake up Justin! (she calls out) Nurse! Oh please no. (Cristina rushes in) Cristina: Move please. (yells and moves Marion out of the way) Move please! Marion: No, no, no, God please. Cristina: Code blue! (She starts prepping Justin) Just stay back! Marion: Justin baby I'm right here. Please Justin I love you! (Nurses rush in. Cristina lowers Justin's bed, as a team brings in the crash cart) Cristina: Please shut her up! Nurse: He's in V-FIB. Cristina: Charge the paddle to 100. Nurse: Charged. Cristina: Clear. (Cristina places the paddles on Justin and shocks his heart. Immediately the heart monitor starts beeping normally and Justin coughs awake. Cristina looks relieved while Justin just looks upset) (Burke and Cristina are walking out of Justin's room and down a hospital hallway) Cristina: Ok we need to get him back on the donor's list. It's a bad heart. Burke: It's not a bad heart. Cristina: Well can you get him back on the list? Burke: He's waited two years for this heart. He has to fight for it. He has to decide he wants to live. Cristina (frustrated): Ok, medically speaking is there anything else we haven't done? Burke: The way you're feeling right now ... is why I have to believe in something bigger than me. Because if I didn't, that powerlessness would eat me alive. (He walks up the stairwell, leaving Cristina standing there) (OR where Derek and Izzie are operating on Mr. Epstein again) Derek: Drill please. Izzie: Any danger of two craniotomy's in one day? Derek: No more than with one. (He starts drilling) Derek: Is there any music? Nurse: Any requests? Derek (looking at Izzie): Christmas carols. Or Hanukkah. Is there such a thing as Hanukkah carols? (The bars of a Hanukkah song start) The brain is a mysterious thing Dr. Stevens. You never know what may penetrate the psyche. (Izzie looks like she's smiling through her scrubs mask) (O.R where Nadia is being operated on. Bailey is being fed a drink by a scrubs nurse, while George and Meredith stand near the operating table, holding clamps and stuff in Nadia's body cavity) George: Oh, look at that. Meredith: Kissing ulcers. One's perfed and the other one's bleeding. George: Two ulcers. Not surprised by the family. I should've thrown them out. Why didn't I throw them out? That's what I should've done. But no I didn't. (Bailey turns back to the operating table, scrub mask in place and everything) Bailey: Stop whining O'Malley, you had your chance; you didn't take it. Move on. George: Right, sorry. Bailey: Do not kick me. George: Excuse me? Bailey: Are you kicking me under the table O'Malley? George (shocked): No! Bailey: Then clearly I wasn't talking to you! ... Uh! Eh! (she backs away from the operating table) You can not kick me while I'm doing my job. (Bailey is pressing against her pregnant belly. Everyone just stares at her amazed) Bailey: Thank you. (She steps back up to the operating table) (Izzie is walking down the abandoned hospital hangout. Alex is lying down on a hospital bed asleep with textbooks surrounding him. Izzie walks up to him and slaps him) Izzie: Wake up. (Alex sits up groggy) Izzie: God, no wonder you failed your boards. What do you expect to learn this stuff by osmosis? Alex (sleepy): What are you doing here? Izzie (crosses her arms in front of her): I'm a farmer, ok? I've been drooling, puking and crapping in my pants. Alex: You came here to help me study? Izzie (annoyed): Well I'm not actually crapping my pants now, am I? Alex: Why would you want to help me after what I did? (Izzie is silent for a moment, shaking with anger) Izzie (yells): Because it's what Jesus would freaking do! (Cristina is standing in Justin's room by his bedside. She looks over to his mother who is fast asleep near the door. She then takes a seat and sits next to Justin. She leans forward) Cristina: You know I don't believe in Santa either Justin or God. (Justin looks over at her slowly) I believe in medicine. And it's a medical miracle you're alive. With the heart you had, you should've, you should've died after two weeks after you were born. Except some surgeon figured out a way to give you someone else's heart which is, is so much cooler than Santa. ... So I'm just saying ... .... I think you should decide to live. ... Live so you can become a doctor and you can find a way to do heart transplants without someone having to die. Or live so you can grow up so you can have kids and you know what raise them not to believe in Santa. And that, that would piss your mom off. (Justin smiles) Just decide to live because in your case dying really isn't the best revenge. (Cristina leans back into her chair) (Hospital waiting room, where Nadia Shelton's family sit waiting. Bailey and George walk up to them. Mrs. Shelton and Jimmy stand up immediately) Jimmy: How is she? Nadia's Mother: Is she gonna be alright? Bailey: She lost a lot of blood but we were able to replace it and repair the tear. She's gonna require several days of observation but she should have a full recovery. Jimmy: Oh thank god. (Bailey is smiling as she starts to leave) Nadia's Mother: Thank god is right 'cause we're certainly not going to thank you! (Bailey stops smiling and stands where she is) Nadia's Mother: We should sue you for all your worth! We sat here and sat here and sat here and sat here and sat here ... Bailey (whispers to George): You wanna help me out? Nadia's Mother: And watched you take patient after patient after ... George: Really? Bailey: Yeah. You got your second chance. Just don't screw it up. Nadia's Mother: You made my daughter wait for 3 whole days for her operation! I should sue you and this whole damn hospital! (The rest of the family walks up to them) George: Ok, yeah you could sue us or you could just consider the possibility of just shutting the hell up. Nadia's Mother: What did you say to me? (to Ernie) Did you hear what he said to me? Ernie: I heard him. Josh: You can't talk to an old lady like that. Nadia's Mother: Where is my daughter? I'd like to see her. George: Well you can't. I'm her doctor and she is my patient and this is a hospital which is the kinda place where people could generally use a little peace and quiet. So no right now you can't see her. And I'm not saying this just because you threatened to sue Dr. Bailey who spent the last several hours saving your daughter's life (The family look outraged at this, while Bailey just looks smug) saving your wife's life. I'm saying this because she is my patient and she is in the recovery wing of this hospital trying to recover! And visiting hours are over! So goodnight! (a little calmer) and Merry Christmas. (He walks off, leaving the family looking shell-shocked) Bailey: Interns. Too emotional. Oh, apologies. (She also walks off) (Hospital hangout where Izzie is sitting on the hospital bed and Alex is standing in front of her) Alex: Uh, is the nausea constant or intermittent? Izzie: Constant. Alex: When, when did it first start? Izzie: After I worked in the fields all day. Alex: Do you have any allergies you're aware of? (Izzie's struggling really hard not to cry. Her eyes are filled with tears) Izzie (tears in her voice, she shakes her head): No. (Alex moves to sit next to Izzie as she starts crying now freely) Alex: Izzie, ... I never wanted to hurt you. Izzie (crying): You didn't hurt me. I don't even know you. I'm a farmer! Alex: You, you're still the patient? Izzie (still crying but indignant): What does it look like? Alex: It's organophosphates. (Izzie nods) Pesticide poisoning. Crying is a symptom, that's it right? Izzie (nods and continues to cry): Right. (Meredith is walking down the hospital hallway dressed to go home. She smiles when she sees Bailey fast asleep dressed to go home on an empty gurney) (Meredith is still inside the hospital but at the foyer entrance about to walk out. Derek also dressed to go home, walks out of the elevator and sees her) Derek: Hey. (Meredith closes her eyes and stops walking. She turns and faces Derek) Meredith: Hey. (She starts again heading out of the hospital) Derek: You, ok? Meredith: Yeah, yeah. You know, holidays. Derek: Yeah. I do know. (They head outside into the night) Meredith: Merry Christmas. Derek: Merry Christmas. (They part ways) (Derek enters Joe's bar. He walks up to the bar where Joe is standing) Joe: Hey. Derek: Merry Christmas Joe. Joe: Merry Christmas. (He pours Derek a drink) Double scotch. Single malt. Derek: You're a good man. (He takes the drink) Addison: Hey, Dr. Shepherd. (Derek turns and sees Addison sitting at a bar table with catalogues and her own drink. She smiles at him. He lifts up his drink and toasts it at her) Derek: Dr. Shepherd. (He takes a sip and makes his way over to the table) Addison : So? How's Mr. Epstein's frontal lobe? Derek: He woke up smiling. Addison: Congratulations. Derek: Thank you. What are you drinking? Addison (chuckles): It's ah hot buttered rum. It's delicious. Derek (smiling): It's Dickensian. Addison: Ah no, yeah, well it is Christmas. Derek: Hmm. Addison: Christmas Derek. We love Christmas. At least we used to. Derek: Yeah. ... Christmas makes you want to be with people you love. ( Addison looks up at this) ... I'm not saying this to hurt you or because I want to leave you. Because I don't. (Addison looks confused) Meredith wasn't a fling. (Addison sits back instantly on guard) She wasn't revenge. I fell in love with her. That doesn't go away because I decided to stay with you. (He sits down next to her while Addison contemplates what he has just said) MVO: There's an old proverb that says you can't choose your family. (Cristina arrives home to Burke's apartment. She places her bag down on a table as well as her keys. She stops when she sees the little Christmas tree Burke had this morning all decorated and lit up.)MVO: You take what the fates hand you... (She smiles when she sees an 8-candle Hanukkah set sitting on the window sill. She looks into the bed room and sees Burke half lying-half sitting on the bed reading a book.) MVO: ...and like them or not, love them or not, understand them or not ... (Cristina is now dressed for bed and she climbs in next to Burke) Cristina: Justin took a turn. His fever's down and his BP is up. (She cuddles up into Burke) Burke (knowingly): I wonder what got through to him. Cristina: I don't know. MVO: ...you cope. (Townhouse where Izzie is lying down on the floor with her head under the Christmas tree. The tree is all lit up and flashing. Meredith walks into the room) Meredith: Pretty. Izzie: Yeah. (Meredith lies down next to Izzie) MVO: Then there's the school of thought that says the family you're born into is simply a starting point. (George now comes to the living room and looks at the two confused) George: What are we doing? Izzie: Lights. (George sets down his coffee mug and runs quickly into the room and lies down next to Meredith and also begins staring at the lights) MVO: They feed you and clothe you and take care of you until your ready to go out into the world. (Doc barks once and enters the room and sits down next to George) MVO: ...and find your tribe. (The camera pans up the tree and fades out) 2x13: Begin the BeginOriginal Airdate: 1/15/2006Written by: Kip KoenigDirected by: Jessica Yu(Meredith's house) (Izzie is in the bathroom standing against the door, holding a coffee mug in one hand. You can hear Doc barking and growling really loudly and you can also hear George's muffled yelling) George (screams): God, holy, ow. I said down, back...IZZIE! IZZIE! Incoming! (Izzie looks startled and moves to open the bathroom door and George runs in and they both slam the door shut) MVO: Fresh starts. Thanks to the calendar, they happen every year. (Izzie hands George her coffee mug which he accepts gratefully) MVO: Just set your watch to January. Izzie: You know I'm thinking about coloring my hair. Maybe red. George: Yeah. Red's good. I'm thinking about cutting mine. Izzie: Yeah? You look good shorter. George (looks a little surprised): You think? (You can now hear Meredith giving the dog compliments and the barking has stopped. George and Izzie open the door tentatively and peek out) Meredith: What a good dog? Who's mommy's good boy? (They see Meredith patting and shaking the dog's paw) Meredith: Silly. Yes, I know. You're a good boy. You're such a good boy. (They look absolutely amazed by this) Meredith: What are you guys doing in there? We're going to be late. George: We need to talk about the dog. Izzie: That's not a dog. It's a hyena, escaped from the zoo dressed in dog clothing. George: Whatever! I don't chew up his clothes. I don't urinate on his bed. I don't try to mount him from behind! Meredith: People, he's our dog. We love our dog. He loves us. (She continues patting and leaves. Doc turns and growls at Izzie & George and then lets out a bark) Izzie (apprehensive): He tries to mount you from behind? George: Tries to. (Doc barks loudly and George whispers) Tries to. (Derek's trailer) (Derek decked out in full fisherman's gear is heading into the trailer carrying a trout) MVO: Our reward for surviving the holiday season is a new year. Bringing on the great tradition of New Year's resolutions. (Derek walks in and up to Addison is blow drying her hair actually standing outside the bathroom) Derek: I got a trout. Addison: Oh! Derek: Rainbow trout. Addison: Why, why did you bring a trout into the house? (Derek walks to the tiny kitchen, with the trout and starts washing it) Derek: The trailer. Addison: Why did you bring a rainbow trout into the trailer? Derek: Breakfast. Addison (dead-panned): Breakfast. Derek: Yeah, you hungry? Addison: For trout? Derek (smiling): Yeah. Addison (fed up): I hate this Derek! (She tries to storm up to him but the blow dryer cord pulls her back) I... argh! I hate this! I hate, hate! I hate this trailer! (She huffs and slams the door of the bathroom behind her) Derek: So no trout for you then? MVO: Put your past behind you and start over. (Nursing Home) (Richard is visiting Ellis Grey at the nursing home. He's helping them to cups of coffee at the coffee/food table. Ellis is standing next to him) Ellis: I'm standing there with Pritchard and Lewis and they keep on asking me who was I with in the on-call room last night. Richard (uncomfortable): Uh. Ellis (grinning): They heard us. (chuckles) Were we that loud? Richard: Huh, you're loud. Ellis: Stop. (Richard starts moving towards some seats and a table) I am loud aren't I? Richard: Pritch. Was always sticking his nose in someone else's business. You know I actually saw him again ... at his wife's funeral. (They sit down) Ellis: What? Pritchard isn't married. Richard: Ah oh right, right. I'm thinking of someone else. Just confused. Ellis (nods): You need sleep. Residency is wearing you down. (They sip their coffee) Richard: Ellis? Ellis (smiles): Yes? Richard: Nothing. I just hate being an intern. Ellis: Mmm. Me too. MVO: It's hard to resist the chance at a new beginning. A chance to put the problems of last year to bed. (OR Scrub Room) (Cristina is getting scrubbed up for a surgery. Burke walks into the room and hands Cristina a scrubs mask which she accepts smiling) Burke: So, in the name of the new year ... Cristina: Oh, I don't do resolutions. Burke: In the name of the New Year, I thought you could give me an answer to my question. Cristina: Your question? Burke: About you ... moving in. Cristina (sighs): I don't have an answer. Burke: Cristina. Cristina: I'm not being Cristina. I just ... I don't have an answer. Burke: Then answer me this. What were you planning to do? Cristina: About what? Burke: The baby. (Cristina looks up at this but a scrub nurse enters the room) Nurse: Dr. Burke, we're ready for you. (Cristina leaves and Burke is left looking upset) (Richard is standing up on some stairs talking to a crowd of interns and doctors that are standing at the base of the stairs. Meredith walks up to the crowd and stands next to Alex who is also standing there) Richard: Listen up people. New Year, new rules or should I say New Year and we will be enforcing the rules mandated by the residency review committee. There were too many mistakes made last year. (Alex looks down at this) Fatigue played too big a role. Exceeding 80 hours per week will not be tolerated. George (whispers to Izzie): Does that mean we actually get to have a life? Izzie: I think so. Richard: Sullivan, you were on-call for 28 hours, leave when you hit 30. Grey you were here to 2am last night, see you at noon. Meredith (to Alex): I get to go? Free time? Alex: Run before he changes his mind. (Meredith leaves) Richard: Oh and people our nurses are gonna have to work extra hours to compensate so treat them well. Cranky nurses don't do us any good. (The crowd disperses and Izzie and George walk past Alex) Izzie (to Alex): Well maybe you can cheer them up. (George chuckles and Alex gives her a look. Izzie stops walking and turns around) Izzie: You know what? My New Year's resolution was to let it go, and I am.I have...let it go. I apologize. (They all start walking down the hallway together) George (amazed): You do? (Alex smirks at George) Izzie: I do. How'd your test go? Alex: I feel pretty good about it but I won't know for a few days. Izzie: Well we're all pulling for you. George: We are? Izzie: We are. (Burke is performing surgery in the O.R with another doctor. Cristina is standing a few feet away watching) Burke: He can see the mesothelioma better now that I've partially dissected it. Cristina: Um, I can't uh, I can't really see it from here. Can I, can I go in closer. Burke: You're fine there. (Richard enters the O.R) Richard: Preston, good news. We have a heart for Denny Duquette. Burke: Great news. Has he been called? Richard: Got here 10 minutes ago. Burke (nods): Good. I was worried we couldn't find a match in time. Richard: We have a plane ready to take you to Twin Falls, Idaho for the organ recovery. 90 mins each way. How much more do you have here? Burke: Uh, heart comes out first. I'll be cutting it too close. Richard: They have a local heart team there so ... Burke: No, Bailey. Send Bailey. She'll be our eyes. (Richard nods and then stares at Cristina) Richard: Dr. Yang, you need to leave this O.R. Cristina: Excuse me? Richard: You've exceeded your 80 hour limit for the week. You have to leave the hospital. Cristina: Okay um, um as soon as the mesothelioma is dissected out. Richard: Dr. Yang. Now. (Cristina nods and Richard walks to the door but Cristina still stands there) Burke: You heard him. (Cristina looks down and walks out of the OR, the door being held open by Richard for her) (Bailey, Alex, Izzie & George are doing rounds. They enter Denny Duquette's room. A reasonably good looking heart transplant patient's. He is lying in a hospital bed as a nurse fixes his IV) Bailey: Denny Duquette. Denny: Hey Dr. Bailey. Bailey: I hope seeing you here means that they finally found you a heart. Denny: No offense doctor but I'm not a big fan of hospitals. It takes something pretty special to get me in here. Bailey (to Izzie): What do we know about Mr. Duquette? Denny (smiling at Izzie): Capricorn, single, loves to travel and cook. Bailey: Denny be quiet. Let her show off. Izzie (looks down smiling): Denny Duquette, 36. Admitted today for a heart transplant necessitated by a viral-cardiomyopathy. Bailey: Hmm and what does that mean? Izzie: That his heart is unable to fill and pump blood normally. Bailey: Good. Denny this is Dr. Stevens. She'll be tending to your private surgery. Denny (grins): So I guess I'll be seeing you around, Dr. Stevens. (Alex looks on less than amused as Izzie smiles back. They leave the room and stand at the nurse's station as Bailey finishes checking on Denny) Alex: Gotta hand it to the guy, trying to get some action when he's practically a corpse. Izzie: Alex, he's just trying to be nice. (Bailey and George walk out of the room and start walking down the hallway. Izzie and Alex catch up to them) Bailey: No one enforced an 80 hour work week when I was an intern. 110, 120 hours suited me just fine. I learned more because I worked more. George: Well at least this way you get a rest before you have the baby. I mean being that pregnant, keeping up this pace. Bailey: Are you saying I look tired O'Malley? George: No, not tired, no. You look fresh, spry. You glow. What (he looks at his watch) stop now? Bailey: O'Malley, go do an intake on Addison Shepherd's patient. George (still looking down): Addison. (He walks off. Bailey turns to Izzie and Alex) Izzie: You do glow. Alex: Like the moon. Bailey: And you can spend the day in the pit Karev. (Bailey and Izzie walk off) (A young girl named Bex is sitting on the hospital bed drawing on a drawing pad. Her parents are next to her talking to each other. George walks in and is followed by Addison a few seconds later) Addison: Dr. O'Malley. George: Hi. (He hands Addison the chart) Mr. and Mrs. Singleton, Rebecca, this is Dr. Montgomery-Shepherd. (Addison shakes hands with the parents) Mrs. Singleton: You don't think it's cancer, do you? Bex is too young for cancer right? Addison: Mrs. Singleton, I'm just getting up to speed. I'm sorry. Dr. O'Malley? George: Rebecca has been admitted for... Bex (interrupts): Could you stop calling me that? Mr. Singleton: She prefers Bex. Not Rebecca. George: Bex has been admitted for an ultrasound-guided biopsy on an enlargement of the pelvic lymph node. Addison: Okay Bex, you mind if I check it out? Mr. Singleton: Okay, I'll just ah ... (He nods and leaves the room) Addison: It's a minor procedure Bex, but we'll give a local anesthetic to manage the pain. (Addison starts feeling around Bex's stomach and chest) George: What are you drawing? Bex: Just a dumb comic. George: You're really talented. Mrs. Singleton: It's big, I know. It just appeared one day. Addison: I'll perform a biopsy this morning and Dr. O'Malley will have to take some blood so we can run some tests and then we can start to get you some answers. Ok? Mrs. Singleton there's no need to panic. I'll keep you posted every step of the way. Mrs. Singleton (nods): Thank you. (Addison leaves) George: Sorry about this but I'm going to need that arm to get some blood. I'll be quick. (Bex stops drawing and George takes her arm and rolls up her sleeve. He notices several slash and cut marks on Bex's wrist. He looks up at Mrs. Singleton who just looks down) (Mauer Paskowitz and his fianc? Audrey's room)Alex: Mr. Paskowitz, we've located the source of your abdominal pain. (He points to the x-ray film he's holding) There. It's called a bezoar. Mauer: Bezoar, huh? Alex: Yeah it's a clump of foreign matter that couldn't be expelled with a pro-kinetic agent. Mauer: I love it. In a hospital a laxative is a pro-kinetic agent. Audrey: So what you just go up his butt and grab it? Mauer: Baby, please. Alex: Actually we won't be able to reach it that way. We will have to get it from here. (He points directly at Mr. Paskowitz stomach) So Mauer, tell me what you've been eating? Mauer: Garbage. Absolute garbage. Alex: Could you be more specific? Audrey: Tell him what you ate, Mauer. (Mauer just stays silent) He's a writer. Suffering for his art. Alex (nods): Ok. Audrey: He ate his novel. Alex (does a double take): Huh, I'm sorry what? Mauer: I ate my novel, ok? The whole damn thing. Every last piece of that unmitigated crap. (Audrey just smiles and shakes her head. Alex is left looking amazed) (George is walking up to Addison, who is standing at a nurse's station) George (hands Addison a chart): The labs for Bex Singleton. Addison: Anything? George: Yeah her hormone levels, estrogen, progesterone are sky high. Addison: Huh, you did a history right? Any mention of birth control pills? George: No, but her parents were right there. Addison (hands him back the chart): Talk to her again. George: But she hasn't hit puberty yet, isn't that weird she'd be having sex? Addison: These days Dr. O'Malley it's not that unusual. Talk to the patient. (Addison leaves) (Richard is walking up to Derek who is dressed in regular clothes, using his phone in the middle of a hospital hallway) Richard: Derek. Derek: Oh, morning Richard. Richard: You busy? Derek: No, my surgery just got cancelled. Why? Richard: I need a favor. Derek: Sure. (Bex's room, where she is now by herself, drawing some really amazing comics. George enters the room) George: Hey Bex. Is your mom and dad ... Bex: Food. George: Great. ... Because I wanted to talk to you. Your lab work showed ... have you been taking birth control pills? Bex (stops drawing & looks up scared): If you tell my mom and dad- George (interrupts): No, I won't. I just ah need to know why. Do you have a boyfriend? Bex: Like anybody would want to have sex with me. George: Well then why? Bex: I'm as flat as a board. I took like 5 of those pills a day and nothing's different. (George just stares at her confused) Boobs, dude. George (realization dawns): You were trying to make your breasts grow. Bex: I wanted to be normal for once in my life. (George nods to himself) Is this what caused the tumor? George: No. No the pill wouldn't have any effect on your lymph nodes but it would ... the amount you were taking is really dangerous and it caused a pretty major hormonal imbalance. Have you been feeling any different than usual? Bex: I feel like how I always feel. (She brings up one arm and rests on it. It reveals the scars on her wrist) (Derek is standing in an elevator, reading a paper with two other nurses. The doors open and reveal Meredith standing outside dressed to go home. She walks in and the two nurses leave) Meredith: Hi. Derek (puts the paper away): Hi. You leaving? Meredith: 80 hour limit. You? Derek: Surgery was postponed. (It looks like he's checking her out. He can't stop smiling or looking at her. Meredith looks over at him) Meredith: I have a dog. Derek (smiles): You have a dog. Meredith: My point is I have a dog. Derek (full on grinning now): You have a dog. Oh you know what? I love dogs. Meredith: I've moved on so don't give me that look. (He moves from his position against the wall and stands up close to her) Derek: What look? Meredith: That look. Our look. I'm over you. Derek: I'm over you too. Meredith: You are? Derek (shakes his head smiling): No. Meredith (matter of factly): Oh, well I am. Over you. Derek: I'm over you too. Meredith: You just said ... (He raises his eyebrows at her) Shut up. (The doors open and they are both smiling at each other until they see who is standing in front of the doors. Addison. Who is by the way not looking very happy) Derek (to Addison): Hi. Meredith (to Derek): Bye. (Meredith walks out of the elevator. Derek resumes his original position of leaning against the wall and Addison walks in. She has a very ill look on her face but doesn't say anything) Derek (sighs): There is a land called 'passive-agressiva' and you are their queen. Addison: I am fine. Derek: Except when you shriek about trout. Addison: I was not shrieking about trout. Derek: Right, you weren't. You were shrieking about Meredith. Addison: No, I was shrieking about the trailer. I hate the trailer. Derek: Oh okay, so the past three weeks have been about the trailer? Addison: Yes. Derek: Not about the fact that I said I love Meredith. Addison: Loved. Derek: What? Addison: You said you loved her. Past tense. Derek (looks down): Right yes past tense. Addison: Well then I have been shrieking about the trailer. Derek (nods disbelieving): Mmm. (The doors ding open and Addison leaves. Derek just shakes his head) (Alex is entering Mauer's patient room with another intern, who is wheeling in a gurney) Alex: Ok Mauer it's time to return your book to the library. Your surgery is in an hour. Mauer: What's up with this flop sweat? (Mauer is sweating like crazy) Alex: Probably just nerves. Mauer: But I'm sweating like, like, like Nixon. President Richard Milhous Nixon. (Audrey just shakes her head) That guy could sweat. And I Mauer Paskowitz, I wrote an epic-like crap novel that I sure as shine can sweat like Nixon. (The two other doctor's and Alex start prepping Mauer for his surgery) Audrey: It's not that even bad of a book. I read practically every draft. Mauer: Forgive me honey but you are not exactly Lionel Trilling. It blows. Alex: Lionel Trilling? Audrey: He seeks the approval of dead literary critics. The dead don't read Mauer. Alex: You think of being something other than a writer? Mauer: No. I am a writer. Mauer Paskowitz! I have no plan B. Audrey: We can't get married for three years until the damn book is done. Three years I listened to him piss and moan! For what? So he can eat the thing. Mauer: Ha! (They move Mauer onto the gurney) Alex: The computer have a delete button? Mauer: I wanted to literally put it behind me and start a new book. Audrey: Okay, we all get the symbolism. It's painfully obvious. Alex: And obviously painful. (The wheel Mauer out of the room) (Bailey is receiving a container for transporting the heart she's supposed to get. Cristina peers around the corner dressed to go home. Cristina creeps up to her as Bailey grabs her stuff and starts heading down the hallway) Cristina: Uh, hi. I heard that you were going to Twin Falls, Idaho. I've never been. Bailey: You reached 80 hours? Cristina: Technically. Bailey: You're off work Cristina. Go enjoy your day. (Cristina takes Bailey's coat from her and helps her put it on) Cristina: I'll enjoy my day if I can help retrieve a heart. Promise. (Bailey just shakes her head in disbelief but lets Cristina tag along) Cristina: It's a nice coat. (Addison is performing an ultrasound on Bex in her patient room. George is in there but her parent's are not) Addison: You see that Dr. O'Malley? George: It looks like a tumor is compressing an ovary. Addison: That's why I biopsed both ovaries. Bex: Is that bad? Addison: It's really just a precaution Bex. ( Addison moves away from the bed) Apply pressure Dr. O'Malley. (Addison puts the biopsied tissue into containers at the end of the bed) Addison: I'll get this up to Path. You mind doing the dressings? George: Sure. Addison: Alright Bex, then we'll get you the results just as soon as possible. (She takes the containers and leaves. George avoids looking at Bex's wrists which Bex notices) Bex: You're a doctor, haven't you seen scars before? George: I'm just trying to figure out why someone with so much talent would want to do that. (He looks at the comic book that lies on the table in front of her) Bex: It's just a comic book. It's about me and my best friend Jen, when we were kids. Satisfied? George: Did she write it with you? Bex: Jen has a boyfriend like everyone else. I get to be a freak all by myself. George: Oh, freak. That's not the easiest thing to be in high school is it? Bex: You sound like my shrink. George: Hey, I wasn't always a doctor. In high school, I was ... secretary and treasurer ... of the dungeons and dragons club. Bex (chuckles): Oh man! George: Yeah. I was also a mathlete and I won the blue ribbon in biology club. Best fetal pig dissection. Yeah, and let me tell you that had the girls knocking down my door. You just have to get through high school. Cause high school sucks for anyone who's the least bit different. But then there's college. And out in the real world, you will find where you fit in. Bex: You think so? George: Yeah, I know so. (Izzie is entering Denny's room. Denny has his eyes closed and looks like he is asleep) Denny (opens his eyes): Hi. (Izzie lets a small gasp) Izzie: Denny. Ha ha, I thought you were asleep. Denny: Nah, I don't sleep in hospitals. Scared I'll never wake up. (Izzie gets out her stethoscope and checks Denny's heartbeat) Denny: Can I ask you something personal? Izzie: If I say no? Denny: I'll hold my breath which will stop my heart, killing me. You're right here, you'll be charged with murder. Lifetime in prison loved by a big old girl named Hilde. Izzie: So my choices are homicide charges or inappropriate personal questions from a patient. Denny: I know, kinda sucks. (Izzie starts entering information in the computer next to Denny) Izzie: You know what? Hold your breath. I'll take my chances with Hilde. I can do girl on girl. Denny: Oh so you're brining up girl on girl? How can I blackmail if you bring up girl on girl? Izzie (smiling): What do you wanna know? Denny: That guy Alex. You with him? Izzie: No. Not anymore and never ever again. Denny: Good. Izzie: Good? Denny: Yeah good. It means I won't have to fight him for you. Izzie: What makes you think I want you to fight him for me? Denny: Hello? You are in love with me. Izzie (laughs): Am I? Denny (grinning): Yeah, it's not your fault. I mean I'm well off but not into money. I'm smart but I'm not a know-it-all. I'm funny. I'm really nice. I love animals. (Izzie fake swoons) And I'm hot. I'm a catch. You know if you can wrap your head around the enlarged failing heart and the dependency to IV meds. Izzie (playful): You're right. I am so in love with you. It's a shame really, since I'm with Hilde and all. (They both chuckle and Izzie leaves) (Meredith's house) (Meredith has piles of laundry on the kitchen breakfast table. She is folding sheets while Doc sits next to the table) Meredith (to Doc): There. Five loads of laundry. I have literally washed the past out of my life. (Doc just pants) (Pathology lab) (Addison is looking through a microscope. George enters) George: You paged me? Addison: Yeah, have a look at this. It's Bex's biopsy. (Addison moves away from the microscope and George steps up to have a look) George: Biopsied ovary? Addison: Not exactly. I've arranged a meeting with Bex's parents, George. Oh and find out who the on-call psychiatrist is and if they're available to join us. George (looks up): Does she have cancer? Addison: No, it's not an ovary. It's a testis. George: A testis? (He looks back into the microscope) Are you sure? Addison: Yes. I'm sure. George (amazed): Bex is a hermaphrodite? Addison: Yes. (Helicopter) (Cristina is sitting in a seat shooting glances at Bailey's stomach, who sits in two seats across the aisle with her eyes closed. Bailey awakens and sees Cristina looking) Bailey: Yang, why are you staring at my fat pregnant belly? Cristina: Sorry, I'm ... (She looks out the window) (Conference Room)(George, Addison and Raj the psych guy are sitting at a table. Mr. Singleton is pacing around the room, while Mrs. Singleton sits across from them) Mr. Singleton: Let me get this straight. You're telling me that our daughter, my daughter, you're telling me my daughter might actually be a boy? Mrs. Singleton: That, how is that possible? (Mr. Singleton sits down next to his wife) I don't understand. I don't understand how- Mr. Singleton (interrupts): Shouldn't this have been detected somehow? Addison: Externally, Bex has female genitalia. She looks like a girl, but internally she has both female and male sex organs. Mrs. Singleton (upset): So what now? What are we supposed to do? I don't understand. Addison: Ok, the best news is that the lymph node tumor is benign. So physically Bex is going to be just fine but emotionally (she looks at Raj), psychologically I strongly recommend therapy. Mr. Singleton: She's already in therapy. Addison: I'm talking about therapy for all of you. This is not going to be easy for Bex to hear and it's, it's not going to be easy adjustment for you to make. Mrs. Singleton: My god. My poor girl. Mr. Singleton: A big adjustment? What kind of adjustment? Raj: Many inter-sex people begin to identify very strongly with one sex and it's not necessarily the sex they've been raised. Mrs. Singleton (adamant): She's, she's a girl. She looks like a girl; she has always been a girl. George: It at least helps explain why she feels so different. (The parents just stare at him) Raj: The point is that biologically and emotionally speaking, she has a choice to make. Mrs. Singleton: A choice? (Mauer is being wheeled down the hallway for his surgery by the same 2 interns as before and Alex with Audrey walking beside them) Mauer: My mouth feels all weird. Audrey (sarcastic): Chewing paper will have that effect lover. Alex: Weird how? Mauer: Pins and needles. No needles and pins. Needles and pins. Yeah, yeah. Sprouting from my fingers and toes like, like, like ... lord god give me a simile. Alex (to Audrey): Is he always this way? Audrey: The man ate a novel, he's not exactly normal. But he got weirder the more he ate. He's like obsessed. (They stop as they meet the Chief. Alex hands Richard the chart) Richard: Mr. Paskowitz, I'm Dr. Webber. I'm going to be performing your surgery today. (They all wheel Mauer into the elevator) Mauer: I poured my heart and soul into that freaking book and now it's stuck up my ass! Put that on my tombstone Audrey! On my tombstone! (Denny's room as he just taps his fingers in a rhythm obviously agitated. Izzie walks in) Denny: Hey Dr. Stevens. Izzie: Hey Denny. You ok? Denny: I've been waiting for this a long time you know? You're going to open up my chest, take out my heart and replace it with another one. Izzie: Well not me and not another heart. A better heart. Denny: What if something goes wrong? (Izzie walks up to Denny's bedside) Izzie: Don't be nervous. Dr. Burke is an incredible surgeon and you're getting a new heart today. Just keep thinking about that. Denny: Yeah ok. (Burke walks in with Denny's chart) Burke: Denny! Denny: Preston Burke. My favorite cardio-thoracic surgeon. Burke: Oh, your only cardio-thoracic surgeon, but thanks. I will be on the phone with Dr. Bailey as the organ recovery progresses. We wanna make sure that the heart stays viable, isn't damaged while the other organs are perfused. We'll have you in the O.R and if it is a go, we'll start the procedure before she even gets back. (Burke hands Izzie the chart) Denny: Hey Izzie. Izzie: Yeah? Denny: I'm getting a new heart. Izzie (smiles and nods): You're getting a new heart. (They smile at each other) Izzie: I'll see ya. Denny: Bye. (She leaves) (Addison and George are walking down the hallway to Bex's room. They meet Bex's parent outside the room) Mr. Singleton: Ah excuse me, ah uh Mary and I were talking. Ah and ah we think Bex should stay... Mrs. Singleton (interrupts): She can't handle something like this. You saw the scars. George (amazed): You're not going to tell her? (Mr. and Mrs. Singleton shake their heads) George: But this could help her. You can't not tell her who she is. Addison: Dr. O'Malley. (To the parents) Uh we'll go ahead and proceed with scheduled surgery to remove the tumor and then you can talk to your daughter in your own time. Mrs. Singleton: Actually, we were thinking (she gestures for her husband to continue) Mr. Singleton: We thought since you're already going to be in there ... Uh we know fixed isn't the right word but- Mrs. Singleton (interrupts): We were thinking that with the hormonal confusion, it might be easier on her to remove whatever boy parts she has. (George looks horrified) Mr. Singleton: Keep her more of a girl. Addison: Just to be clear you're asking me to perform sexual reassignment surgery on your daughter? Mr. & Mrs. Singleton: Yes. George (astounded): Without her knowing? Mr. Singleton: Well all she's said all her life is that she wants to be normal. She doesn't feel normal. Mrs. Singleton: Why can't we just put an end to her agony? Addison: First of all removing her male sexual organs may not do that, in fact it could do just the opposite. Mrs. Singleton: But her hormones... George: Can be controlled with an oral medication. Mr. Singleton: We just want the best for Bex. Addison: To do surgery and alter her body permanently is ... well I just would never to do that on someone who isn't aware of the procedure and you're going to hard-pressed to find a surgeon who will. (She walks off) George: Bex will learn the truth someday. (Bex walks up to her room door and looks on) How do you want her to find out? ... Excuse me. (He walks away) (Nursing Home) (Meredith is walking through the nursing home when Nurse Linda calls out to her) Nurse Linda: Meredith! Hi. (Meredith walks up to her) Meredith: Hi. I had the morning off so I thought I would come and see how my mother's doing. Nurse Linda: Oh, she's fine. She's in the sitting room. Meredith: Thanks. Nurse Linda: She's in good spirits. Visitors really cheer her up. (Linda wanders off) Meredith (to herself): Visitors? (She looks over and sees Derek walking up and making himself a cup of coffee) (Seattle Scenes) (Nursing Home)(Meredith is now talking angrily to Derek in an empty hallway) Meredith: What are you doing here? Derek: There is a clinical trial to study the progression of early onset Alzheimer's. Meredith: Okay me you can screw with. My mother, no. Not acceptable. Derek: Well there has been some really promising results from similar studies in Europe. Your mother is a prime candidate. Meredith: My mother is very sick and has very few good days. And I don't want her being poked and prodded for some experimental program. Derek (nods): I'm just trying to help. Meredith: Well see this, what you're doing, being Dreamy. It doesn't help. It hurts me. It messes with my head. Derek: I know the feeling. Meredith: I don't doubt that but you have a wife to go home to and I'm guessing she has no idea where you are right now. Derek (chuckles): No, she doesn't. Meredith: It's what I thought. (She walks away) (Twin Falls hospital, OR) (Bailey and Cristina are in the OR with the operating team about to perform surgery on the organ donor. A scrubs nurse hands Bailey the telephone) Nurse: Dr. Bailey. (Bailey accepts the phone) Bailey: Dr. Burke. (Cristina looks up at this) Burke (over the phone): Talk to me Bailey. What are we looking at? (Cristina makes weird gestures to tell Bailey to say she's not here. Bailey is looking through the donor's chart) Bailey: The uh donor's on 25 mics of dopamine. (Burke is on a mobile phone walking down a hallway in SGH) Burke: 25 mics? That's too much. (Back to the O.R) Bailey: They started him on 5mics of dobutamine 30 minutes prior to arrival. (Back to SGH) Burke: Are they trying to kill my heart? What is the central venous pressure now? (Back to the O.R) Bailey (to Cristina): CVP. Go. Cristina: Around 10. Bailey: Around 10. Cristina: MAP close to 80. (Bailey nods) Burke: And his mean arterial pressure? Bailey: Close to 80. (Switch back to SGH) Burke: I can live with a CVP close to 5 and a MAP about 60. That heart needs to be off the dobutamine. (Switch back to the O.R) Bailey (to the O.R team): The heart needs to be off the dobutamine. (Switch back to Burke) Burke: And tell them to get the dopamine back down to 10 mics. (Switch to the OR where Bailey shakes her head) and get them to get another 2 units of blood. (SGH) (Burke hangs up the phone and walks into Denny's pre-op room where Izzie is already standing) Denny: Are we a go Doc? Burke: Still no final word. I want to you have the healthiest heart I can find. Denny: Dr. Stevens, you'll be in there with us right? (Izzie looks at Dr. Burke who nods at her) Izzie: Yeah I'll be in there with you. (Denny smiles) (Richard is about to perform surgery on Mauer with Alex helping him. Meredith sits watching still dressed in regular clothes. George enters with a cup of coffee and sits next to her) George: Hey aren't you supposed to be having free time? Meredith: Oh, I did 5 loads of laundry. Cut my split ends, studied, cleaned out the fridge. Free time sucks. George: When would it have been the right time to hear about your boyfriend's wife? Meredith (gives him a look): Ok are you mad at me or something? George: No! No. Sorry. It's just I have this patient and I get that there's a right and a wrong time to hear big news but wouldn't you rather no sooner than later? I mean just so you could move forward one way or the other. It's a fresh start, right? (OR) Richard: See the little white line of Toldt. Now we can mobilize the lateral border of the left colon. (to Scrubs nurse) Clamp. (he gets a clamp) When Leo Tolstoy here wakes up, you might get him to revisit the idea of a new vocation. Alex: He was pretty against the idea. Richard: Yeah well hopefully it was just delirium. Alex: If it's alright, I'd like to keep an extra eye on him post-op. He's acting pretty strange. Richard: He ate a novel. Clearly he's pretty strange. Alex: Yeah you know I just don't want to overlook anything. Richard: Seriously Karev I'm short-handed all over the hospital. ... Ok here we go. (He reaches in and pulls out the clump of blood paper that is Mauer's novel. He holds it up for everybody to see) Richard (calls out): Anybody here tempted to read this? ... No takers? Could be the great American novel we'll never know. (He puts the clump in a dish to the side) He needs a plan B. Alex: He's not the only one. Richard: You don't think you passed? Alex: Eh, I thought I passed the first time. Richard: Just wait and see. Right now today, you're still here. (Bex's room where George is checking up on her) Bex: Did you tell my parents about the pill? George: No. Bex: Am I gonna die? Is that what no one wants to tell me? George: Of course not. Bex: Then why are my parents acting so ... would you just tell me what's going on? George (writing in her chart): What's going on is uh we're prepping you for surgery to remove the lymph node tumor that's compressing your ... Bex: Ovary. (Addison and Bex's parents walk into the room) Addison: Hey Bex. Bex (sits up): Mom. Dad. This is really freaking me out. Mrs. Singleton: Oh no everything is going to be fine Bex. Mr. Singleton: It's ok sweetie. Bex: I'm having surgery to remove a tumor that's compressing my ovary, right George? (George is silent) Addison: Dr. O'Malley. (She gives a slight shake of her head for him to be quiet) Bex: George? (George looks sick and remains silent) George? George: What am I just supposed to lie to her? Addison: Ok, that's enough. Dr. O'Malley, please leave the room. (George puts down the chart and starts heading out) Bex: No wait! Tell me what's wrong with me. What is wrong with me? (George just looks at the parents who give each other glances) Mr. Singleton: Bex ... (his wife nods) we learned that your tumor ... it's not compressing an ovary. Bex: Then where is it? Mrs. Singleton: It's on a testis. Bex: Like a testicle? (Everyone is silent) I have testicles? Addison: Yes one. Bex this is a tremendous amount of information for you... Bex (interrupts): And I've had it my whole life? ... Oh my god. Does this mean...does this mean I could be a boy? (Addison gives George a disapproving look as do both the parents) Bex (whispers to herself): Yes. (Hallway outside Bex's room. George is standing out there with Bex's parents who are very upset. Addison is there also) Mrs. Singleton: You engineered that conversation! You forced our hand. George: Well you were lying to her. Mr. Singleton: We were protecting her. Mrs. Singleton: She's a 14-year old girl. George: Well maybe, maybe not. (They give him appalled looks) Mrs. Singleton: This isn't your life! This isn't your child! 14 years! 14 years we have raised a daughter, in one afternoon you expect us to what?!? What is Bex is supposed to do? How is she supposed to go home and tell the other kids? What? You had no right! (Addison moves to interrupt but George gets there first) George: No, I know I'm off the case, right? (He walks away while Mr. Singleton tries to calm Mrs. Singleton down) (Post-op ward where Mauer lies in one of the many beds. Alex walks up to him. Mauer is trying to climb out of the bed) Alex: Whoa, Mauer. Mauer lay back. You just had surgery. You're losing your shirt man. Mauer: Much obliged, brock, brock. Much obliged, pal. Alex (checks Mauer's pupils): How do you feel? Mauer: What's whacked for 20 Alex? Weeds, whack, weeds, whack for 200. (Alex looks on concerned) (Derek is still dressed in regular clothing and Richard walking down a hospital hallway) Derek: I saw Ellis. Richard: And? Derek: I think I can get her into the clinical trial. She's the perfect candidate. Richard: Excellent. Thank you, Derek. Derek: You realize this requires Meredith's power of attorney? Richard (nods): Yeah. Derek: Might be better if it's coming from you. With me, there's baggage. You, you're just trying to help out a friend. Richard: Right. Right. Derek: Well, let me know if Meredith wants me to make the call. (Derek walks off, leaving Richard pondering his own true intentions. He then notices Alex at the nurse's station nearby) Richard: Karev? (He walks up to Alex) What are you doing? Alex: Research on the bezoar patient. Richard: I told you I needed you on the floor. Alex: He has fever, sweats, tingling in his lips, fingers, toes, mood swings and a lack of co-ordination. And did I mention the crazy talk? Richard: Your point? Alex: My point is, he ate his novel. Richard: I know. Alex: Mercury's in the paper. He's got mercury poisoning. (Richard looks a little surprised) (Twin Falls hospital, OR) (Bailey is performing the operation on the donor with other doctors while Cristina watches on) Bailey: Cristina, call Burke. I'm feeling some fairly extensive damage from coronary artery disease. Cristina (looks slightly ill at this): Um... Bailey: Yang? (Cristina walks over to the phone. Scene switches to SGH where Burke answers his phone in a hospital hallway) Burke: Talk me to Bailey. Cristina: It's me. Burke: I can't talk I'm waiting for a call from Bailey. Cristina (quiet): I'm with Bailey. Burke (does a double take): You're in Idaho? (Scene switches back to Cristina) Cristina: Yeah. Burke: You're breaking the rules. Cristina: Yes. (Scene switches to back to Burke. Richard walks up to him) Richard: Preston. What's happening with our heart? Burke: Hello, Dr. Webber. Tell me what I need to know about Denny's heart, Dr. Bailey. (Cristina has an oh crap look on her face) (Denny's pre-op room where Izzie is checking Denny's heart beat again. She looks outside and sees Richard pat Burke comfortingly and walk off. Burke sees her and gestures for her to meet him outside) (Meredith is standing at a nurse's station filling in some paper work when Richard walks up and stands next to her) Richard: This program Derek looked into was a favor to me. Meredith (looks up disbelieving): Nice try. Richard: Sometimes Meredith, a favor is just a favor. This treatment won't cure your mother. It won't give her a new lease on life but it may give her more good days. I urge you to consider. (Mauer is lying in his own post-op room with Alex checking on him) Mauer: Lying here trapped in this flesh prison I've reached a grim conclusion. I'm a failure. (He turns to Alex) You know how that feels? Alex: Dude, if you only knew. Mauer: Even my manic attempt to put my failed novel behind me failed. Time for a plan B, I reckon. Time, indeed. Perhaps I shall play the cello. Alex: We make a mistake here and people die. It happens all the time. Mauer: All the time? Alex: There's a lot. Mauer: This is part of the hallucination, right? Alex: My point is we all have set-backs Mauer. But I'm a doctor and you're a writer. We don't have a plan B. (Richard and Audrey walk into the room. Audrey walks up to Mauer's bedside) Mauer (jokingly): Call Security! (Audrey just takes his hand and smiles at him) Richard (to Alex): Have you determined a course of treatment for the mercury poisoning, Dr. Karev? Alex: Yeah the patient has been administered a chelator called British Anti Leukocyte which will absorb the mercury over the next several days. Richard: Good work doctor. (Richard leaves the room) (Helicopter) (Cristina and Bailey are sitting in the same spots as they were before. Cristina is caught staring at Bailey's stomach again) Bailey: Yang. (They look at each other for a bit) Cristina: You know what's wrong with having an 80 hour limit? It protects the weak. It levels the playing field. Which not only sucks. It's, it's dangerous. Bailey: 80 hour work week. That's what's on your mind? (Cristina looks down) I thought about it. Not keeping it. Cristina: You did? Bailey: My husband and I ... we tried for years but still when that stick turned blue ... Well you can't work the way we work, you can't want the kind of careers that we want and not take pause. I took pause. Cristina: You paused? Bailey: I paused. I paused a very long time. Cristina: So why did ... Bailey: I sat up one night. Middle of the night ... and I knew I could do this... I still don't know how I'm gonna do this, but ... I knew I could do it. You just have to know and when you don't know then no one can fault you for it. You do what you can, when you can, while you can. And when you can't, you can't. (Denny's room)(Izzie is standing in the room waiting for Denny to wake up) Denny: You're stalking me. You're a stalker. (Izzie turns around to face him) Izzie: Well, can you blame me? Denny: So it's bad. Izzie: You have time. Denny: Liar. Izzie: Fine, there's no time. Denny: Well that's just spiteful. ... I didn't get the heart. Izzie (shakes her head slightly): You didn't get the heart. (Seattle Scenes) (Bex's room)(Bex is sitting up on her bed by herself looking fairly happy. George enters the room) George: Hey. Bex: Hey George. (He drops himself down on the bed) George: Hey, I just, I just wanted to check in on ya. Bex: Heard my parents weren't too happy with you. George: Nope. Bex: Thanks for telling me. For making them tell me. George (nods): You know um there are people that you can talk to. I can if you'd like... Bex (interrupts): I know. ... ... George, do I have to be a boy now? George: No. No. Bex: But I can if I want to. George: Yeah you can, if you want. Bex: Hey, could you, would you bring me some scissors? (George nods) MVO: Who gets to determine when the old ends and the new begins? (Meredith is waiting against a wall on the hallway for Derek who comes out an elevator and stops in front of her when she calls out his name) Meredith: Derek. Derek: Hi. Meredith: Tell me about the program. MVO: It's not a day on a calendar. Not a birthday, not a new year. (Izzie is standing in front of the hospital entrance with Denny who is sitting on a wheelchair being pushed by a nurse) Izzie: Denny, I'll see ya. Denny: Goodbye Dr. Stevens. (The nurse pushes Denny out the sliding doors. Izzie starts heading back more into the hospital when Alex comes up to her) Alex: Hey. (Gestures to Denny) He's leaving? Izzie: Didn't get the heart. Alex: Sorry. Izzie: Yeah. Alex: He's a good guy. Izzie: Yeah, he is. (Izzie stops and looks outside through the doors and sees Denny standing up. He nods towards her and starts walking off) MVO: It's an event, big or small, something that changes us. Ideally it gives us hope. (Bex's room where Bex is sitting on a chair holding a mirror and looking in it while George cuts her long hair off. Mr. and Mrs. Singleton enter and George stops. Mrs. Singleton walks in and holds out her hand to George. George hands her the pair of scissors and heads out. Mrs. Singleton continues cutting Bex's hair. George watches from the doorway) MVO: A new way of living and looking at the world. (Derek's trailer)(Derek sits on an outdoor chair nursing a beer, his trout cooks on the BBQ. Addison exits from her car) Derek: I'm cooking the trout outside. Addison: Thank you. (She walks up the stairs to the veranda and sits on an empty chair next to Derek) Addison: Oh. (relaxes) .... There is a land called 'passive-aggressiva' ... and I am their queen. Derek: That's all I'm saying. Addison (she takes the beer from him and takes a sip): So what? With Meredith? Am I just supposed to wait it out? Wait until it passes? Derek: That'd be good. Addison (nods): I still hate the trailer. (She hands him back the beer) Derek: As is your right. MVO: Letting go of old habits, old memories. (SGH Parking lot) (Cristina is standing, waiting outside for Burke. Burke walks out and up to her) Cristina: I wasn't gonna have it. The baby. And you don't get to be mad about that, we barely knew each other. I was an intern and there was no way I could even... Burke (interrupts): I'm not mad. Cristina (appraises him): You're not? Burke: No. I just wanted to know. (Cristina half nods) I wanna know things. MVO: What's important is that we never stop believing, we can have a new beginning. (Meredith's house, bathroom) (Izzie and George are sitting on the floor sharing a pizza. Doc is heard barking loudly. You can also now here Meredith yelling at the dog about her laundry. Izzie and George look up at this. Meredith opens up the bathroom door) Meredith: You don't eat laundry. Bad dog! Bad dog! Bad! (She closes the door with arms filled with laundry) MVO: But it's also important to remember that amid all the crap are a few things really worth holding on to. (Meredith throws down her laundry and sits next to George who opens up the pizza box for her. Izzie resumes reading her magazine and Meredith takes a slice of pizza and starts eating it) 2x14: Tell Me Sweet Little LiesOriginal Airdate: 1/22/2006Written by: Joan Rater, Tony PhelanDirected by: Adam Davidson(SGH) (Derek is in the OR performing surgery on a patient. The gallery is empty aside from Meredith who is standing by herself) MVO: As doctors we're trained to skeptical because our patients lie to us all the time. The rule is: every patient is a liar until proven honest. (Cristina enters the gallery and gives Meredith a wry smile and Meredith smiles back. Cristina walks up to the window to peer and looks down into the surgery) Meredith: Why aren't you prepping for rounds and stealing all the good cases? Cristina: Well why aren't you prepping for rounds and stealing all the good cases? Meredith (shrugs): No reason. Cristina: No reason? MVO: Lying is bad. Or so we're told. Constantly, from birth. Honesty is the best policy. (Cristina sits down next to Meredith) MVO: The truth shall set you free. I chop down the cherry tree. Whatever. Meredith: I'm waiting for McDreamy. Cristina: I'm avoiding Burke. Meredith: Why are you avoiding Burke? Cristina: He thinks I moved in with him. Why are you waiting... Meredith (interrupts): McDreamy is doing me a favor. Burke thinks you moved in with him? Cristina: Wait you're calling him McDreamy again? (Cristina shakes her head at Meredith) MVO: The fact is, lying is a necessity. (Trauma room where Meredith is sitting on a table as Derek draws out her blood) Meredith: Thank you for doing this. With the needles and the blood. They won't accept her without a full family history. Derek: I'm happy to get your mom into the clinical trial. Even with the needles and blood. (He stands up and they 'gaze' into each others eyes) Derek: All done. How's that feel? MVO: We lie to ourselves because the truth, the truth freaking hurts. Meredith: Feels good. (Cristina is standing in a hallway waiting for Meredith. Meredith walks up to her and they start walking down the hall together) Meredith: Burke thinks you moved in with him? What does that mean? Cristina: Ok it's not important. You're calling Derek, McDreamy again. Meredith: It's nothing. Cristina: All right, what are you doing? Meredith: What are you doing? Cristina: Stop repeating what I say. Meredith: Stop asking me questions. (They stop and look out over the railing of the mezzanine and hear some banging. George is banging on a window of the hospital with Izzie standing next to him, arms crossed holding a leash with Doc on it.) George (yells): Cujo has to go! (Intern locker room where the interns are getting for rounds. Meredith is sitting down on a bench, already in her scrubs with Doc laying next to her) Izzie: He peed on my bed. My bed, Meredith! Meredith (defensive): He's our dog! George: No, he's not my dog. You two bought him, without even asking me. Meredith: We rescued him from certain death. (She pouts) Come on you guys. George: I'm putting my foot down. Either the dog moves out or I do. Foot. Down. Now. Me or the dog, which is it? (Meredith looks down at Doc contemplating and then back up at George) George (shocked): You hesitated! She hesitated! Izzie: You hesitated?!? Meredith: I didn't hesitate. I was thinking. George: You have to think about it, fine! I'm moving out right now. (He heads to the door to exit the room but as he opens the door, Bailey is revealed standing there. He swivels back towards his locker) George: Later. I'm moving out later because right now I have rounds. (Bailey walks into the room) Bailey: Tell me that is not a dog. All: It's not a dog. (Bailey's pager goes off) (Bailey is standing outside the emergency double doors with Cristina, George, Meredith, Alex, and Izzie. An ambulances double doors open up and paramedics start wheeling out a patient, including Tony the paramedic) Tony: Rick Freeark. 29. Severed 3 fingers on his left hand. Controlled the bleeding in field. Vitals stable. Gave him 5 of morphine on the way in. (They all start wheeling the patient down the hallway) Bailey: The fingers? Tony: Had some trouble retrieving them so we took off. Rich behind us found them. They're iced and ready to go. 10 minutes out. Bailey: Continue with IV fluids and start a course of antibiotics. (Bailey stops Cristina) Bailey: Yang, wait outside for the fingers. (Cristina heads back out) (Rick's trauma room) Rick: You can sew them back on right? Cause they sewed that guy's penis back on after his wife chopped it off, right? Bailey: Penises and fingers. Like apples and oranges. George: How did it happen? Rick: I was loading my gear onto my truck for a gig and my hand got caught in the lift gate. Alex: You're a musician? Rick: I play the friggin guitar. (to Bailey) You can sew them back on right? It's not that big of a deal right? Oh dude I better not be out of the band. (Trauma room, where now there are only scrub nurses and Derek checking on Rick's fingers. Cristina enters the room with Rick's detached fingers in a towel) Derek: Well the cuts look clean. That's good. Clean and severed makes reattachment easier. I'm not going to lie to you, if the surgery is successful; we're looking at a long recovery. Lots of physical therapy. (Rick looks pained at this) You smoke? Rick: Why? Derek: Cigarette smoke constricts the blood vessels. I've seen really good grafts fail over a few cigarettes. Rick: So what are you saying? I, I smoke a cigarette after my operation and boom my fingers fall off? Cristina: No first they turn black and necrotic and then they fall off. (Derek smiles apologetically at Rick) Rick: Well I don't smoke, so ... Cristina (holding up one detached finger): Really? Cause judging by the nicotine stains, your fingers do. (Rick looks alarmed at the idea of having to give up smoking) (George is rifling through some charts at the nurses station when he hears a voice call out from a patient room) Sophie: Anybody out there? Hello! (George shoots a glance to Nurse Debbie who is also at the desk) Debbie: Don't look at me! She had hip replacement surgery a month ago and was discharged last week. George: Then why is she still here? Debbie: Because I am not a bouncer and this is not a nightclub! I am doing what I can (Richard walks up and Debbie walks directly to him) with extremely limited staff and resources and if you have a problem with that take it up with 'Chief!' (She storms off. You can hear Sophie sing now) Sophie: Don't know why, there's no sun up in the sky ... (Richard shoots George a look) Richard: Mrs. Larson's got to go. George: If she refuses to leave what can I do? Richard: She's 78 and non-ambulatory. You have the upper hand here. Use it. (Bailey, Izzie and Alex walk up to them) Richard: Karev, can I talk to you for a second? (He and Alex walk off to the side and he hands him an envelope) Richard: The results of your medical board exam. Alex: Thanks. (Richard walks off as Izzie looks on curiously. George dumps a bunch of charts into Izzie's arms and heads off. Bailey looks on disapprovingly. Alex walks back up to Bailey and Izzie) Izzie: Aren't you going to open it? Alex: Yeah, I'll open it. (George is entering Sophie Larson's room. An elderly yet very vibrant and energetic woman) Sophie (sings): I'm weary, all the time. (George claps loudly) Sophie: Oh, thank you. Thank you. George: Ok, Mrs. Larson I'm Dr. O'Malley. Sophie: Oh an Irishman! I love the Irish. They have a sparkle. You can see it in the eye and the swagger. Come on Dr. O'Malley, show me the swagger. (George looks slightly uncomfortable but swaggers half-heartedly up to Sophie's bedside) Sophie: The eyes are right, but uh you'll have to work on the swagger. George: Mrs. Larson... Sophie: Call me Sophie. Now, be a doll and bring me a remote. (She holds up and shakes it in front of him) This one's busted. George: Sophie, I can't bring you a new remote because you are no longer a patient at this hospital. Now according to your chart you have a room waiting for you at the Sugar Maple Nursing Home. Sophie: I'm staying until my daughter's house is ready. She's converting her den into my bedroom. She's doing it a shade of pink. Now bring me a remote Irish. I'm going to sing until you get back. (She starts singing loudly) Can't go on. Everything thing I have is gone! (George holds out is hand and she slaps a remote into it) Stormy weather- George: Coming right up. (He leaves) (Trauma room where a young Asian woman named Yumi sits on a bed continuously hiccupping. Yumi's Coach, Mr. Kamaji is also in the room) Alex: Ah Yumi Miyazaki. 22. She presented this morning with persistent hiccups. Izzie: She was given 50 chlopromazine which stopped them for a while but then the hiccups returned so she needs a surgical consult to rule out esophageal perforation. Bailey: When did your hiccups start? Mr. Kamaji: A few days ago. She doesn't speak English. Bailey: Are you her boyfriend? Mr. Kamaji: Her coach. Alex: Oh she's an athlete. Mr. Kamaji: Ah, Yumi is a competitive eater. Izzie: Eating is a sport? Alex (nods): Miyazaki ... yeah, yeah. She's like a Rock star in Japan. Izzie: Again, eating is a sport? Alex (to Mr. Kamaji): Tell her I saw her on TV. Tell her that I'm an athlete too. I'm a wrestler. Mr. Kamaji (in Japanese to Yumi): The young doctor wants you to know he's a wrestler. I think he's flirting with you. (Yumi gives Alex an appraising look) Yumi (in Japanese to Kamaji): Tell him I eat little boys like him for breakfast. Mr. Kamaji (to Alex): She wonders how a wrestler got smart enough to be a doctor. Most wrestlers she knows are dumb. (Alex and Izzie smile. Izzie more of a oh my god smile) Alex: Just tell her that she hasn't been hanging around the right gyms. Bailey: How bout instead you tell her that persistent hiccup could be an indication of something much more serious. (To Alex and Izzie) Schedule an esophogram. Mr. Kamaji: Oh she's competing this afternoon at the 'Taste of Seattle'. Can't you just give her a stronger dose of that drug? It seemed to work. Bailey: Did the hiccups come back? Mr. Kamaji: Yes, but... Bailey: Then it didn't work. (She moves and starts to walk off, but stops suddenly clutching her stomach in pain) Izzie: Dr. Bailey. Bailey: Be quiet. Izzie: Dr. Bailey, are you ok? (Bailey tries to shrug it off, but she still seems to be in pain) Bailey: All right somebody page Addison Shepherd. (Izzie moves off quickly while Alex stays with Bailey) (Bailey is lying down being given an ultrasound by Addison in an exam room) Addison: There he is. Heartbeat's strong. Since there's no dilation or effacement, looks like nothing more than Braxton Hicks. (Bailey sits up) Bailey: Except I know the mild concerned tone. I've used it myself from time to time. Addison: Sometimes false labor is the body's way of telling you to slow down. Bailey: I'm a surgeon. Addison: I understand the realities of your job but you need to understand the realities of your pregnancy and take it easy. Is there anything I can do to help? Bailey: Uh, yeah for starters you can help me get up off this table. (Izzie knocks on the door and enters) Izzie: Dr. Bailey. The GI lab has a couple of questions about Miss. Miyazaki's esophagram. Bailey: Well let's go. (Bailey walks out of the room) Addison: Dr. Stevens. (Izzie stops following Bailey) Addison: Keep an eye on her today. Watch out for any painful contractions. More than 5 in an hour. Anything that could indicate pre-term labor. (Izzie shakes her head) The favor is not for me Stevens, you know that. (Izzie nods and walks off) (Patient room where a middle aged woman named Naomi Cline lies on the bed looking very happy. Meredith and Burke are at the end of Naomi's bed. Tom Cline, Naomi's husband is also in the room) Meredith: Naomi Cline. 43. Had her tricuspid valve replaced 3 years ago with a porcine valve, sir. Burke: Ah Naomi, surprised to see you back again so soon. Pig valve usually holds up 10 to 15 years. But yours seems to be degenerating a little too quickly for my comfort. Naomi: Oh, heart valve, schmart valve. (excited) I got married Dr. Burke! (She laughs) I found him. My true love. My 'you jump, I jump'. (Burke and Meredith exchange looks. She holds out her hand to show her wedding ring) Look. Isn't it beautiful? And look, look at that beautiful, beautiful man. (Meredith and Burke turn around to see a middle aged balding man named Tom Cline.) Tom (uncomfortable): Heh. We ah meet in the grocery store. Naomi: Oh honey ... (She gestures for him to come be by her bedside) Burke: Oh, congratulations. It's good to see you so happy Naomi. Naomi: Yeah. (Tom comes by her bedside and Naomi becomes very affectionate) Tom: So Naomi's heart valve, what does this mean? Burke: Well there's an underlying cause for your wife's valve failure that remains undiagnosed. Theories, Grey? Meredith: Rheumatic fever, chronic use of migraine meds- (A large bark from Doc in the hallway interrupts her) or IV narcotics could all cause uh valve disease sir. Naomi (smiling): Oh I don't use drugs. Don't need them. I've got Tom, he's my drug. Aren't you baby? (Meredith looks weirded out by Naomi's happiness) (Meredith and Burke are walking out of Naomi's patient room walking down the hall) Meredith: She's high Dr. Burke. Burke (chuckles): Oh, she's in love. She's happy. Meredith: Nobody is that happy. She's on drugs. Burke (sighs): Run a tox screen but Naomi doesn't strike me as a liar. If she says no drugs, then it's no drugs. You develop a sixth sense about these things. Meredith (shrugs): Everybody is a liar. (Doc barks loudly again from the hallway) Burke: Dr. Grey, is that a dog? Meredith (shakes her head): No. (Derek is with Rick in the trauma room.) Derek: Look, we need to keep this elevated ok? Rick: Ok. Derek: I'll be back to check on you in a little bit. (Derek heads out of the room into the hallway where Cristina is dumping some waste into a waste bin. They start walking down the hall together) Derek: Yang, you were a little harsh in there. Cristina: He was lying. Besides your harsh is another man's refreshing. Derek: Well he's in shock. The man's lost his fingers and his only remaining habit in one day. We need to be compassionate. Cristina (looks upset): Compassionate? Derek: Yes. It's an emotion. Have you ever heard of it? CRISTINA: Oh, have you? (Derek looks shocked at Cristina's audacity) She's barely back on her feet and you've got her calling you McDreamy again. You know I was just telling the patient the truth. So you might want to try it sometime. (Cristina walks off) (George is standing on some shelves rummaging around a utilities room. Richard walks by but double backs when he realizes what George is doing) George: Remotes. (He pulls out a stack from a box) More remotes. Richard: O'Malley? George: I'm getting a remote for Mrs. Larson. Richard: What happened to the upper hand? George: Have you met Mrs. Larson, sir? Richard: Why do you think she's been here this long? In a private room? George (amused): She handled you, too? Richard: Well, she sang for the troops, you know. George: Can't we just keep here until her the room in her daughter's house is ready? Richard: No we can't. Not on surgical service, anyway. George: Oh, ok... but some other service? Richard: I'm the Chief, O'Malley. I can't condone turfing patients onto other services. You hear me O'Malley? (Richard walks off) (George is entering Mrs. Larson's room smiling) Sophie: I'm ah, I'm missing my program Irish and I don't see a remote in that hot little hand. George: I noticed that urine output has increased slightly since yesterday. I'm going to have to take you to gynecology to make sure you don't have a prolapsed uterus. Sophie: Honey my uterus hasn't been an issue for 30 years. George: I know, but it might be an issue now. ... You know one that could keep you here in the hospital for tests. (Sophie grins broadly and grabs the metal triangle in front of her for grip) Sophie: You drive, I'll ride shotgun. (Izzie comes to the door as George prepares to move Mrs. Larson's bed) Izzie: You're not moving out, George. George: Oh yes, I am. I gave an ultimatum. Threw dawn the gauntlet. I drew my line in the sand. Izzie: Well un-give, un-throw and un-draw. George: A man does not give an ultimatum and then back down. (Izzie helps George move the bed out of the room and down the hallway) George: Meredith had a choice and she chose the dog. Sophie (shocked): A girl chose a dog over you? George: Yes. Izzie: No. (Izzie and George stare at each other) (Hospital outdoor cafeteria. Alex is sitting at a table by himself looking over the envelope Richard gave him. There is also an unusually big pile of hotdogs sitting in front of him. He puts it away quickly as Cristina and Izzie come up and sit down at the table as well. Cristina also has a large plate of hotdogs) Alex: Are we gonna do this or what? Cristina: Yeah, let's go. (George comes up running with his own plate of hotdogs) George: Don't start without me. Alex: We're not gonna start if Izzie doesn't focus. Cristina: Izzie, come on. Izzie (ignores this): What should I put on the flier? George: I don't know. Cristina: Destructive, aggressive, uh hell dog available. George: That's not helping. Cristina: Fine, uh playful, protective puppy needs loving home. Izzie (approvingly): Good. (Meredith comes with her own set of food and Doc on a leash. She sits down) Meredith: Hey, George. George (looking down at his food): Don't talk to me! You'll only make me mad. You're gonna mess up my game and I'm in the zone. Meredith: Okay. (To Izzie): What are you doing? Izzie: Oh it's a flier that I'm gonna put it up...Cristina (yells): Izzie, come on! George (yells at the same time): Izzie! Izzie: Okay! Keep your panties on! (Izzie picks up a stop watch as George, Alex and Cristina all prepare to have a hot-dog eating contest) Izzie: All right. (George picks up one of his hotdogs) Cristina: No touching! (George puts down his hotdog making a face at Cristina) Izzie (struggling not to laugh): Go! (George, Alex and Cristina start wolfing down their hotdogs. Though Cristina opts for eating the actual hotdog meat first quickly, rather than bun and dog like Alex and George) Meredith (looks at the flier): You're advertising for a home for Doc? I said I would do it. Izzie: And you haven't and you won't. And I don't want George to leave. (She makes a funny face when she looks at George's eating) Meredith: Well at least put down he's not house-broken. (Izzie gives her a look) What? It's the truth. Izzie: Ok, so you want me to put the truth. Fine. (Cristina has now finished her hot dog meat and only left with the buns with she is now wetting down with water, mushing up and then stuffing into her mouth) Izzie: Vicious, hyper devil mutt is available. And will pee on the bed. Meredith: He's your dog too. We got him together. (She gives the others a weird look at their eating contest. It seems Cristina is winning, Alex followed closely behind, and George is pretty much screwed) Izzie: We got him together, please. He's not your dog either. He doesn't even know us. We are not home enough for him to know us. (Cristina stuffs the last of it down her mouth and shouts victorious. Though it's very muffled and hard to understand since she still has a mouth full of bread. Alex and George also protest muffled as she hasn't chewed it all down. Cristina stands up and starts gloating and making hand gestures) Cristina: You want to be! You want to be me but you can't be me! You want to be me... (She stops abruptly and looks like she's gonna chuck) George: Uh, oh. (She sits back down woozy) Izzie: Crap, she's gonna blow. (They all stand up quickly and run off, leaving Cristina sitting by herself trying not to throw up) (Patricia and Richard are walking down a hallway together. Patricia is reading from some papers) Patricia: The surgical floor has become a dumping ground for patients who aren't even surgical. We are overworked and exhausted. This makes for un... Richard (interrupts): The nurses again? Can't you do something about this? You used to be one of them. Don't you speak nurse? (Richard stops in front of the OR board) Patricia: That's why you don't get any respect from the nurses; surgical arrogance. Richard (huffs): I'm not arrogant. Patricia: You're killing them with that workload. Look at the board! (The board is absolutely filled) Richard: What? That's a beautiful board. Patricia: That's a crowded board. (She hands Richard the paper she was reading from) We need more nurses. (She walks off) (Exam room, where Yumi is lying down on a table undergoing an ultrasound. Izzie, Bailey, Alex and Mr. Kamaji are in there. Yumi is still hiccupping) Bailey: Mr. Kamaji, this is probably what's causing her hiccups. (Izzie points to a screen) A tear in the lining of her esophagus. Mr. Kamaji: Can you fix it? Bailey: Yes, surgically the sooner, the better. Mr. Kamaji: Ah, after the competition today her schedule is clear until March. Bailey: No her schedule is clear now. She can't compete today. And if she enjoys the taste of solid food, I recommend giving up the sport for something a little less aggressive. Say boxing. (Yumi just lies on the table looking scared and at Mr. Kamaji to tell her what's going on) Mr. Kamaji: I see. Could you give us some privacy please? (The three doctors all exchange looks and leave the room) Bailey: Karev, get the translator up here. Let's make sure she's getting the whole truth. (Patient room where Rick is. Cristina comes in and finds Rick's band mates and friends in the room, smoking and drinking) Band Mate: BustedCristina: Put that out! Band Mate: Sorry. Cristina: I gotta prep you for surgery. Can you ask your friends to leave? (The band mates hug Richard and leave. Cristina starts prepping Richard and notices a carton of cigarette's on his lap. Richard notices this and holds up the packet defensively) Rick: I wasn't gonna light 'em. I was just holding them. Cristina: Ok. Rick: Seriously, take 'em. Throw 'em out. Cristina: No you hang onto them. Rick: Seriously, I wasn't going to smoke. Cristina: Seriously, I don't care. Do what you want. Rick: You don't think I'm going to be able to quit, do you? Cristina: No. I don't. (George is walking down the hall when he stops suddenly hearing a voice) Sophie (singing): I'm lonely all the time ... George: Oh no. (He looks over at the nurses' station where Debbie is standing) Debbie: Oh yeah. (George opens the patient door apprehensively, not wanting to believe it) Sophie: Irish. That nice lady doctor in gynecology said that since I had a hysterectomy back in '74, I don't have a uterus to prolapse. (George walks in and sits dejectedly on the couch seat in the room) George (to himself): Damn it. Sophie: I've been feeling a bit feverish. (George sits up quickly and grabs Sophie's chart of her bedside) A woman my age with a fever could be an indication of oh any number of awful diseases. George (disappointed): They took your temperature an hour ago. It was normal. I am sorry Sophie, but I'm going to have to call your daughter. Sophie: I'm telling you, I'm warm. (George walks over and places a hand on Sophie's forehead. She places her own hand over his and smiles) Sophie: That must be one hell of a dog. George: Excuse me? (George removes his hand from Sophie's forehead but she still holds onto it) Sophie: With those eyes and those nice firm hands ... A girl who chooses a dog over you ... It must be one hell of a dog. (George smiles at Sophie) (Burke and Meredith are walking down a hallway together) Meredith: Mrs. Cline's tox screen and titer both came back negative. I was sure I was right about that. Burke (chuckles): Gonna have to adjust your world view Dr. Grey. There are people out there that don't lie. Meredith: Maybe. Burke: Although frankly, the drug use would've explained the valve failure. (They stop walking in the middle of some stairs) Meredith: So how do we proceed? Burke: Schedule Mrs. Cline for a surgery. Meredith (nods): Ok. (Meredith starts heading back up the stairs) Burke: Do you want to come over for dinner? (Meredith stops abruptly on a stair and turns around shocked) Meredith: What? Burke: Dinner. Our place. Mine and Cristina's. Meredith (still shocked): Why? Burke: You're Cristina's best-friend. I want her to feel welcome to have friends in our home. Meredith: Oh, so she moved in with you? Burke: Yes. (suddenly confused) Didn't she tell you? Meredith (forces a smile): Of course she told me. Why wouldn't she tell me? She's in, right? Which you know, I think is great. Burke: Right. (He heads off down the stairs leaving Meredith standing looking confused) (Derek is standing in front of an elevator revealing Cristina standing by herself. He walks in. Cristina avoids looking at him) Derek: Just came from Mr. Freeark's room. He's convinced that he won't be able to quit smoking. Says that you agree. Cristina: No he asked my opinion. Want me to apologize? Derek: No I want you to go in there and tell him that you're wrong. That you're having a bad day. You're favorite uncle died of lung cancer and that every time you see a cigarette you freak out. Say whatever you need to say. Get him to believe that this about you not him. Because if he thinks he won't be able to quit, he won't. Then we shouldn't even do this surgery. Cristina: Fine. Derek: What is your problem? I'm your boss. What's the matter... Cristina (interrupts): No you're not my boss right now. We're in an elevator. That's your specialty right? McDreamy moments in elevators. Derek (warningly): Dr. Yang. Cristina: You know just for a moment, I'm not Dr. Yang and you're not Dr. Shepherd. You're the guy who screwed up my friend. The guy who drove her to get a dog she can't keep. The dog she only got because her boyfriend lied to her about his wife. Derek (interrupts): I never lied to her! Cristina: You know what I know a liar when I see one because I'm a liar. Fine you want me to lie to the patient. I'll lie. (The doors ding open and she leaves) (Alex walks back to the Yumi's exam room with a translator. He looks in the room but it's empty) Alex: Yumi? (He walks out and to the closest nurses' station) Alex: Hey, the translator is here. Where's the patient Miyazaki? Nurse: She left with her friend about 20 minutes ago. Alex: She wasn't discharged. Nurse: Sorry, we're short staffed. I assumed someone else had done the paperwork. (She leaves) Alex: Damn it. (Rick is in a hallway banging against a vending machine) Rick: Come on. Damn it. Uh! Uh. (Cristina walks down the hall and rushes up to him) Cristina: What are you doing out of bed? Rick: I gotta get a candy bar, man. Cristina: Uh, you're on morphine. You're about to have surgery and you can't eat. Mr. Freeark, please. (She tries to move him down the hall) Rick: My Dad's Mr. Freeark. He's gotta a comb over and ah, and an annoying wife named Kimberley so- Cristina (interrupts): Rick. Listen. Earlier I was out of line. Rick: No you got me to think. I don't want to be a guy, sitting in a bar with a stump for a hand. Having a smoke 10 years down the line bragging about how I used to play better than Dave Navarro. Cristina: Yeah, you don't wanna be creepy, bitter guy. Rick: Here's the thing. My last cigarette was this morning. Only, I didn't know it was my last cigarette. (Cristina and Rick are standing outside the hospital where Rick is having what looks like to be a very gratifying cigarette. Derek notices this and walks outside and hits against the glass) Derek (to Cristina): What the hell do you think you're doing? (Cristina has a look on her face that says 'oh shit') (OR where a surgery is being performed. Meredith and Cristina are both standing at the edge of the gallery with cups of coffee as all the seats are taken) Cristina: McDreamy's being McDouchey. He's making me stand at the back of the O.R while he re-attaches Rick's fingers. I can't even touch a retractor. I hate him. Meredith: Truth. Did you move in with Burke or not? Cristina (sighs): I told him I moved in with him. I'm keeping my old apartment. (Meredith turns around and gives her a look) Cristina: What? I sleep with Burke every night. My clothes are there. So I still have my apartment, big deal. Meredith: You have to tell him. Cristina: Actually I don't. Meredith: So I'm supposed to go to dinner at your fake apartment with the guy you fake live with? Cristina: Oh, I would never have you over to dinner with Burke. That's weird. Meredith (spins around instantly): This is my point. Stop with the lying. Cristina (whispers accusingly): And you're being honest? That last time you called him McDreamy you were all a-twitter with love. Meredith: We're just friends. Cristina: Uh huh. Meredith: We are. (Infectious Diseases department. George is there with Mrs. Larson talking with an ID resident who is looking through Mrs. Larson's chart) Resident: West Nile virus. Are you kidding me? George: No, look at her. She's feverish. She's much weaker than she was this morning. She could be de-compensating. (Sophie tries to look sickly and coughs) Resident: She's been here for a month, Dr. O'Malley. You seen any mosquitoes in this hospital lately? Sophie: Oh, such a handsome young man ... (The resident gives her a weird look) Those chocolaty eyes ... Resident (tries not to smile): In order to test you Mrs. Larson, we'd have to do a spinal tap. Sophie: Will you be doing it? Resident (tries not to look off put by the idea): Yes, ma'am. Sophie: Well then, call me Sophie. (The ID resident moves to George's position to wheel Sophie's bed down the hallway. George starts walking off) Sophie (calls out): Oh, nice meeting you, Irish! (She waves and George waves back. He walks off looking pretty smug with himself) (Naomi's room, where Meredith is talking to Mrs. Cline. She hands Mrs. Cline a chart) Meredith: So if you'll just sign here, we can go ahead and schedule you for surgery. Naomi: Oh, ok. ... You know you are a gorgeous young woman. Look at you. (She signs the chart) You should smile more. (Meredith fakes a smile and leaves the room. Meredith is outside the room, where she notices Mr. Cline, sitting on a chair out in the hall looking downcast. She walks up to him) Meredith: Mr. Cline. Tom (stands up): Oh, ah ... do me a favor. Meredith: Sure. Rom: Don't tell her you saw me. I'm, I'm not sure that I'm going to go in. She's ... she can be exhausting. Meredith (nods): Yeah, she's...really happy. Tom: You know I thought it was just ... falling in love, the wedding, but I was kinda hoping the honeymoon would be over by now, you know? (Meredith nods) I mean it's not normal, right? (He whispers) Nobody's that happy. (Meredith is walking up to the lab tech guy Jeffery at the lab desk) Meredith: Run another tox screen on Naomi Cline. Jeffery: On whose orders? Meredith: Dr. Burke's, of course. (She ticks the form for the test and pushes it forward to Jeffery) (Izzie is walking up to the on call room. She knocks on the door lightly and enters. Dr. Bailey is lying down on one of the bottom bunks) Izzie: I'm sorry to bother you. The paramedics are on their way in with Yumi Miyazaki. She collapsed at the 'Taste of Seattle' and is vomiting blood. (Bailey looks frustrated and sits up) Bailey: Damn fool, probably tore her esophagus in two by now. (She gets up and murmurs a bit, looking like she's in pain) Izzie: Are you ok? (Bailey takes a moment and then grabs her coat and starts making her way out of the room) Bailey: Complications of Boerhaave's syndrome. Go. Izzie: Pleural effusion, sepsis, shock. (Pre-op ward where Yumi is lying, breathing difficultly on a bed and Alex is checking her vitals. Bailey and Izzie are there as well. Including a few nurses. Mr. Kamaji is watching from outside looking anxious) Alex: Cyanotic with shallow breast sounds. BP is 76 over 42. Tachycardic in the one thirty's. Start her on high flow O2 and give her a second dose of saline. Bailey: Alright, let's get her to the O.R. Izzie: They're ready and waiting. (They're about to start moving Yumi's bed when she grabs Alex's hand pleadingly looking upset as if to say why is this happening? Alex looks down and the looks through the glass wall, shooting daggers at the coach) Alex: The freaking coach should be the one this gurney. Bailey: Let's keep our eyes on the prize Karev. Saving this woman's life. (They start wheeling her out) Alex: I'll meet you guys up there. (Alex starts walking over to the coach. Izzie notices this) Izzie: Me too. (Izzie walks up quickly to Alex) Izzie: Hey, hey. What are you going to do? Punch him out? Alex: Yeah. Izzie: So you're going to kick his ass, get yourself kicked out of the program, before you have to open your board scores which is incase you failed. (Her beeper goes off) God, you're such an idiot. (She walks away) (O.R where Bailey is operating on Yumi. Alex and Izzie are helping and watching) Bailey: Dr. Karev, how do I begin the esophagomyotomy? Alex: Cut proximal and distal to the tear to expose the mucosal defect. Bailey: Correct. Then we'll move to debridement of the defect- (She gasps suddenly) Bailey: Oh! (She backs away quickly from the operating table, dropping the surgical tools and starts breathing in and out quickly) Izzie: Dr. Bailey, those aren't Braxton Hicks contractions. I believe you're in pre-term labor. (Bailey gives her an annoyed look) (Richard is entering the OR all scrubbed up) Richard: Why didn't you call me sooner? (Bailey just shakes her head) Alright, just get out of here. Bailey: I was gonna fashion a gastric patch. Richard: I taught you the procedure. Now leave. (Bailey sighs and leaves) (Meredith is walking up to the blood lab for the results but finds Dr. Burke already there. She walks up slowly to him) Burke: I got paged, Dr. Grey. Jeffery wanted to give me the results to the extensive blood work that I ordered. (He gestures to the forms Meredith filled in) You forged me signature? Meredith: That's really bad, right? Burke: Yeah that's really bad. Naomi is not on drugs. The tests came back negative. Meredith (amazed): They did? Burke: They did. Again. (Meredith shakes her head in disbelief) Next time you forge me signature, let me know. Save me a trip. Meredith: That's it? You're not going to yell and say 'Damn it Grey' and storm out? Burke (smiles): I will if you want me too. Meredith: No. Jeffery (walks up to them with another test): Dr. Burke, here's another one. Her serotonin level is through the roof. Burke: Dr. Grey, you took a detailed history? Meredith: Mmm Hmm. (They start walking down a hallway) Burke: When did Mrs. Cline develop asthma? Meredith: After the first surgery. Why? (Cut to Naomi's room where she is sitting happily on her bed. Tom is standing by her bedside. Burke and Meredith are in there as well) Burke: We found a carcinoid tumor in the lump. Very rare. Almost impossible to diagnose. It masks itself as a bunch of seemingly unrelated symptoms. Adult onset asthma, valve failure...Meredith: An increased level of serotonin in the blood. Burke: Which creates a false sense of euphoria. (Naomi smiles broadly) Tom: So, Naomi is not actually this happy. She just has a tumor? Burke: Exactly. (Meredith nods) Tom: Thank god. Naomi: You people with your tumors. I tell ya, I'm infected with love! (She laughs) Meredith: I'm sorry. Your body is lying to your mind. Naomi: Oh let the lie continue, (to Tom) right baby? Tom (chuckles uncomfortably): How soon can you cure her? Burke: Tomorrow, we can take the tumor out. If all goes well, Naomi goes back to normal. Tom: Alright, thank you both. (Burke and Meredith leave the room and walk into the hallway) Meredith: Thank you for not chewing me out for forging your signature. Burke: Thank you. (Meredith looks confused) I know it was probably you who convinced Cristina. She's very strong but she listens to you. If you told her to move in ... (He smiles briefly) Anyway, thank you. (Burke walks off and Meredith is left looking a little uncomfortable) Meredith: No problem. (OR, Derek is about to start performing surgery on Rick. Cristina is in the OR but watching right from the back) Derek: Now do you have any sensation in your left arm at all? Rick: Nope. (A doctor moves to shield Rick from watching) Actually, could I watch? (The doctor drops the covering so Rick can see) Rick: I wanna see every blood vessel and nerve I'm gonna screw up if I ever smoke again. Not that I'm gonna. Ever again. (He makes eye contact with Cristina) I smoked my last cigarette. (Derek notices this) Derek: Ok, let's get started. (Miss. Larson, Sophie's daughter is talking to Nurse Debbie at a nurse's station) Miss Larson: The nursing home said she never showed up. How exactly is that possible? Debbie: She wouldn't leave. Miss Larson: My mother is old and infirm. You couldn't make her leave? Debbie: Have you met your mother? Miss Larson: Fine. Where is she now? (George who is walking by notices Miss. Larson) George: Oh, hi I'm Dr. O'Malley. She's in the infectious disease service. Miss Larson: Infectious Disease. Since when does she have an infectious disease? George: She doesn't. She just doesn't want to leave. Miss Larson: Ah, she's unbelievable. George (smiles): Yeah she is. ... So is her room ready? I could go get her right now. Miss Larson: They've had the room ready for weeks. George: No, ah not at Sugar Maple. I meant at your house. Miss Larson: I'm sorry? George: The, the pink room ... (realization dawns) at your house. (Miss Larson just gives him a look) (George is entering Sophie's infectious disease room where she's watching television) George: Hi Sophie. (Sophie switches off the TV) Sophie: Irish, what a wonderful surprise! You won't catch my disease will you? George: No, I think I'll be ok... Sophie, your daughter was just here. (Sophie stops smiling instantly and gets teary eyed) Sophie: Nursing homes are for old people. I know I'm elderly. I do know that. ... But if I have to go that place, I'm afraid I'll become old. George (takes her hand and smiles): I don't think that's possible. Sophie (smiles): Oh. George: You know that I, I would keep you here if I could. Sophie: Oh, no darling you can't waste any more time with me. You have to go balls out with the dog. George: Excuse me? Sophie: So she chose an animal over you! So what? Women are fools. That's old news. But life's too short for you to give in, Irish. ... So fight, you fight for what's yours. (George leans down and kisses Sophie's hand and walks to the door) Sophie: Now that my friend is a swagger. (George closes the door and places his hand against the clear glass door. Sophie lifts her hand to return the gesture. George heads off) (Richard is in the O.R operating on Yumi with Izzie and Alex helping) Richard: I'll be closing the peritoneal cavity with zero chromic sutures. (Nurse Debbie knocks on the glass window of the scrubs room holding up a piece of paper) Alex: Chief. (Richard turns around and sees Debbie and then turns back to the operating table) Richard: Let's get back to it. Pull back on that retractor. Give me more suction. I'll need a sponge on a stick. (Debbie enters the O.R) Richard: What's going on? Debbie: I tried but you wouldn't listen. It is now 6.07. The second shift of nurses started at 6. They're not coming in. Richard: Do you have any idea what a sick out would do to this hospital? Debbie: I've already put in the call for temps. (She puts down the paper she was holding on a table nearby) Richard: What's this? Debbie: Official notification. We go on strike in 10 days. (Yumi's post-op room where she is lying on a hospital bed. Alex is writing in her chart and Izzie is checking on her) Alex: You're doing good Yumi. You're doing just fine. (Yumi speaks Japanese) Izzie: We should get the translator back up here. She doesn't understand what's going on. (To Yumi) We'll be back. (They head out of the room where they run to Mr. Kamaji in the hallway) Alex: What the hell are you doing here? Mr. Kamaji: I never would've ... I thought she would be fine. I'm sorry. Alex: Don't tell me. Tell her. Tell her how her career is over because of you. (Alex steps aside so Mr. Kamaji can walk in. Mr. Kamaji walks in slowly and bows deeply in apology and shame. Alex looks back at Izzie who nods. He reaches into his pocket and pulls out the envelope Richard gave him. They move away from the door) Izzie (pats Alex on the back): Way better than punching him out. Alex: Hey uh ... can you (he holds out the envelope to Izzie) Izzie (takes the envelope): You want me to open it? Alex: Yeah, yeah you know it's just, I can't. Izzie (she tries to hand it back): I shouldn't, I mean I... Alex (interrupts): Look you already think I'm an idiot. It won't be any great shock. (Izzie sighs and opens the envelope. She pulls out the letter and reads it. She puts the letter in front of Alex) Izzie: Congratulations. (Alex grins at her and looks down at the letter) You are not an idiot. Except when you're being an idiot. (Izzie walks off) (Cristina is checking on Rick's fingers in his patient room. She walks out the room where she runs into Derek) Derek: How's he doing? Cristina: Ah jonesing for a cigarette but I'll think he'll make it to the end of the day. Derek: Good. ... I was being nice to her. Cristina: Ok. Derek: I can be nice without being ... (he gestures) Cristina (disbelieving): McDreamy, I know. Derek: I really can. Cristina (still disbelieving): Ok. Derek: Ok then. (He walks into the room) (A nurse is pushing Dr. Bailey dressed to go home in a wheelchair down a hallway. Addison is walking beside her and they are being followed the 'gang' Cristina, Izzie, Meredith, Alex and George) Addison: Bed rest at home until the baby comes. You do know what bed rest is don't you Miranda? Bailey: Yeah hell. (She's being wheeled backwards into an elevator) Izzie: Hell with TV and books. (She hands Bailey a present) Here it's from all of us. (Bailey takes it grudgingly. They all smile at her from outside the elevator. They elevator doors begin to close, but Bailey stops it with her foot) Bailey: I may be 47 months pregnant (The group looks apprehensive as they were about to walk off. Addison has already walked off) I may be on bed rest. I may not be able to see my own feet but I am Dr. Bailey. I hear everything. I know everything. I'm watching each and every one of you. And I will return. (The doors close) (Richard is wiping the OR board clean himself. Burke is standing near the stairs watching him. Derek walks up to Burke) Derek: Strike? Burke: Strike. Richard (turns around): You are all a bunch of arrogant surgeons. (He walks off. Burke and Derek exchange looks) (Cristina walks into an empty gallery except for Meredith who is on her mobile) Cristina: Hey. Meredith: Hey. (She hangs up) That was Izzie. She refuses to take the dog home. Cristina: Mmm Hmm. (She sighs and sits down in front of Meredith) Fine, if you want me to tell Burke I didn't move in I'll tell him. Meredith: No don't. Cristina: What? Meredith: Don't tell him. At least not right now or tonight. (Cristina sighs in relief) I just mean wait. It can wait. (Cristina nods) I lied about Derek. We're not just friends. I mean, I'm not. He's still McDreamy. (Cristina stands up and rubs Meredith's arm comfortingly) Cristina: I know. (She walks out of the gallery) (Intern locker room, there is a notice board showing a flyer for Doc. George walks in and sees Doc lying down on the floor. In fact there are a lot of fliers advertising Doc. Meredith is sitting dressed to go home in front of her locker. George sits down next to her) George: You don't get to choose. Meredith: Huh?George: I know you've been going through a bad time. I know you miss Shepherd. And I know that your life has admittedly been pretty unpleasant these days. You get points for breathing in and out. You get to be a little selfish. But you don't get to choose a dog over me. ... I'm George. I sleep down the hall from you. I buy your tampons. I have ... held your hand every time you've asked. I've earned the right to be seen. To be respected. To not have you think of me as less than a dog that you got at the pound. ...So, I'm not moving out. Whether you like it or not, I'm staying. (Meredith just looks at him) MVO: No matter how hard we try to ignore it or deny it. Eventually the lies fall away. (Cristina is sitting up-right looking hesitant on Burke's bed. She sighs and lies down next to Burke who wraps his arms around her) Burke: I'm glad you moved in. Cristina: So am I. MVO: Whether we like it or not. (Izzie, Meredith and George are exiting out of Meredith's Jeep. Izzie hands George some Doc's toys while Meredith gets Doc out from the back) Meredith: Ok, Doc. Let's go. (They're in front of Derek's trailer. Derek and Addison out and meet them. Meredith looks upset) Derek: Hey Doc. Hey buddy. Welcome home. Addison: Hey. He's beautiful. (They start patting Doc) Izzie: I brought his toys. George: And his food and water. Meredith: Here. (Meredith hands the leash over to Addison) Meredith: Thanks for doing this. I know it's a lot to ask. Addison: It's all right. It's just a dog, right? Come on Doc. (She walks away and takes Doc into the trailer) Izzie (to Meredith): Ah, we'll just wait by the car. Meredith: Ok. (George and Izzie walk back to the car) So he ah chews everything. So don't leave anything out. (Derek nods) He hates cats and small little yappy dogs. Oh (she shakes her head) not house broken. Derek: Oh! Meredith: Probably should've told you that. Derek: Yeah. (They stare at each other for a bit) Meredith: You don't have to do this you know? Derek (nods): What I got, I got all this land. It's just going to waste. (Meredith nods) Meredith: Derek. Derek: It's just a dog. It doesn't mean anything. He'll be a fine. (Meredith forces a smile) Meredith: Yeah. Ok. Goodnight. Derek: Goodnight. (Meredith turns back towards her car) MVO: But here's the truth about the truth. It hurts. (Derek looks on after her for a bit and then heads back into the trailer) MVO: So we lie. 2x15: Break on ThroughOriginal Airdate: 1/29/2006Written by: Zoanne ClackDirected by: David Paymer(SGH) (The floor of SGH where there is a thick red line) MVO: In surgery there is a red line on the floor that marks the point where the hospital goes from being accessible to being off limits to all but a special few. Crossing the line unauthorized is not tolerated. (SGH Entrance)(There is a large group of nurses protesting having formed a picket line in front of the hospital. They are chanting 'Fair hours, fair wages!' They're also holding various signs protesting. George and Izzie stand at the end of the picket line looking at it all) George: Can't. Can't, can't cross the picket line. I can't. Izzie: I don't like it either, George, but what choice to we have? Ok you took an oath to heal. You're a healer. George: Dad's a truck driver. Mom's a teacher. The evening news shows me crossing the picket line ... they'll outlive me just to pee on my grave. (Izzie gives George a weird look) MVO: In general, lines are there for a reason. (Cristina walks up to them) Cristina: Has there been any blood yet? Heard they brought in scab nurses. MVO: For safety. For security. For clarity. Izzie: I think the nurses know that we are on their side. Nurses: Don't cross the line! Izzie: Don't they? Cristina: Well we're doctors. We have sick patients inside. We have surgeries. Izzie: Ok. ... Then you go first. Cristina: Screw it. (She heads through the line and has food thrown at her which she attempts to fend off) Cristina: Yeah doing my job! Doing my job! Ha-ha! (She makes it into the hospital) Izzie (to George): They threw food at her! (George nods) Izzie: That is just wrong! Fine I'm going in! (She goes in and also has food thrown at her. She uses her bag to fend the fruit off. In the mass of nurses she walks past Olivia who screams at her) Olivia: Change your own bed pan Stevens! Izzie: Yeah, enjoy your syphilis Olivia. (She makes it to the front doors and squeals as one last one is thrown at her) Izzie (yells out): George, are you coming? George: No, I'm good here. (He just stands at the end of the picket line watching) MVO: If you choose to cross the line, you pretty much do so at your own risk. (Meredith is entering the Nursing Home where Ellis is. She walks up to the nurse on duty) Meredith: Good morning. Nurse: Morning, Meredith. Meredith: How is she today? Nurse: She's great. She really lights up when Dr. Webber visits. (The nurse turns to look into the living room and Meredith follows her gaze. There she sees Richard and Ellis having a good old laugh in the living room. Meredith appears shocked and confused at the closeness the two appear to have. Especially with all the not so subtle touches on each other's arm) Ellis (laughs): And I did not back down. Not in my OR. Not in front of those jock ortho idiots. Richard (chuckles): Yeah that was the last time Windsor called you little lady. Not even behind your back. Ellis: One day I'm gonna be the Chief of Surgery. First woman Chief! You watch! Richard: I don't doubt it Ellis. (Ellis laughs kinda evilly) MVO: So why is it ... Richard (takes one of Ellis' hands in his): Don't doubt it for a minute. MVO: ... the bigger the line, the greater the temptation to cross it? (Meredith seems weirded out and leaves the way she came) (Outside of SGH picket line where the nurses are still chanting and George is still standing in his stand still position) (SGH) (Patricia is walking down the hall with one of the temp nurses up to a nurses' station. The place looks a little bit like a disaster area) Patricia: And I can't say this enough charts are organized by room number. I know your temp nurses but there's no excuse for sloppiness. (The nurse nods and walks into an adjoining room. Patricia walks up to the nurses station where are Derek and Burke standing going over their own charts, complaining about the whole situation and how they can't do their job properly) Patricia (interrupts their babble): You know why I stopped being a nurse? Doctors. Doctors who don't know how to pitch in. (She walks off) Burke: Right. (Richard walks by and the two pounce on him) Derek: This place is going to hell. Burke: We need to find a way to compromise. (Burke walks off) Derek: We need the real nurses back. Richard: We need an additional 40 nurses to relieve the overtime that they're striking about. That's 2 million dollars a year we don't have. Derek: Have you checked under the couch? I always find spare change under the cushions. (Richard gives him a sour look) Ok, I'm silencing myself. (Richard and Derek part ways) (Cristina, Alex and Izzie are waiting for their new resident. Cristina sees a doctor walk by) Cristina: Yes, yes that's him. He's been published twice and he's flawless. Izzie: Oh, I don't want that guy. That guy's a freak. He doesn't let you speak in the OR. Cristina: Yeah, but he's flawless. (Another doctor walks by) Alex: I think it's him. What's his name again? Cristina: Oh yeah, mouth breather guy. But he'll let you do a procedure on your own if he likes you. (Meredith walks up to them) Meredith: What are we doing? Alex: Trying to figure out who they're going to pick for Bailey's replacement. (A loud booming voice sounds from the stairs) Sydney: Yang, Stevens, Grey, O'Malley, Karev! (A young, cheerful female doctor named Sydney Heron bounds down the stairs and makes her way up to them) Sydney: Here you are! I was looking for you guys in the locker room but you weren't there and then I thought well maybe my interns are looking for me too and then I come out her and here you are. (She chuckles) Yeah. (Cristina looks horrified) You guys look like a great group. (Meredith looks like she wants to laugh) Which is awesome. Because my horoscope said it's going to be a very challenging day and I was a little worried but no you guys ... yeah, you look like a good group. Which is great! Because we're going to have so much fun! Hi! (She holds out her arms and hugs Cristina) Sydney: Hi, First of all hi! Hi. (Cristina remains stiff and uncomfortable) Cristina: Ow, ow, ow. (Sydney backs up) Sydney: Ooh, am I hurting you? Cristina: Ah, no you're, you're touching me. Sydney (has an Oh look on her face but loses it quickly): I'm Sydney Heron. 4th Year and my philosophy just so you know is um is heal with love. (Alex and Izzie raise their eyebrows) Ok, so wonderful. So, Alex, Izzie, Meredith, Cristina and our little group is just missing- Cristina (interrupts): O'Malley. Yeah he's cowering behind the strike line like a little girl. Sydney: Standing up for what he believes in, that's my kind of little girl. Right? So ... The E.R needs somebody down there for a consult, does anybody ... who wants to ... Meredith: We get to pick? Cristina: Oh me, I'll, I'm on it. Alex: I'll help. (They both dash off quickly) Meredith: I have patients I need to check on. (She dashes away fast as well leaving Izzie by herself) Sydney: So it looks like it's just you and me, Izzie McGee. Izzie (force chuckles): Right, right, it's ah, It's ah Stevens. It's Izzie Stevens. Sydney: Oh, no I knew. I was just rhyming. Izzie: Oh, rhyming right, yeah. That's, that's neat. (Addison comes up to Izzie) Addison: Hey Dr. Stevens. Izzie (answers eagerly): Yeah. Addison: Could use you on a consult? Izzie: Ok. I'm on it. Absolutely. (She drops what she's doing and grabs Addison's file. They leave) Sydney: Yeah. (The pit where Alex and Cristina are walking with an ER resident) Alex: You need a consult for a rash? Resident: It's spreading pretty fast. I wanted to make sure nothing surgical going on. (Cristina moves back the curtain concealing a bed) Cristina: Mrs. Solomon, oh! (A young couple, Claire and Wade Solomon are making out pretty heavy on the bed. Alex looks amused. They stop when they realize the doctors are there) Claire: Oh god. Sorry. Sorry. Wade: We're on our honeymoon. Claire: Yeah. Alex (nods approvingly): Sweet. Cristina (shoots Alex a disapproving look): Ah, can you um ... dismount? Please. Claire: Yeah. Cristina: Ok, great. (Wade starts moving off the bed) (Meredith is walking down the hall when she hears a person crying out) Grace: Len! (Meredith walks up to the door where she's an elderly woman named Grace Bickham lying on a hospital bed looking like she's in pain) Grace: Lenny is that you? (Meredith looks around for any doctors but she can't see anyone) Grace: Lenny! (She has trouble breathing and Meredith rushes in) Meredith: Are you ok ma'am? (She looks down at her name on the bed) Grace Bickham. Mrs. Bickham do you know who your doctor is? Grace: Len, Lenny ... Meredith: I don't see your chart here. Grace: Are you there? Meredith: I'm gonna need you to calm down for me, ok? Grace: Lenny? Meredith: Is that your husband? Grace: Oh, where is he? He was here. Meredith: I'm sure he'll be back any moment. You're having some trouble breathing. I'm going to need to run some tests. (Grace just moans) Nurse! I need a nurse in here! (Picket Line) (George is still standing outside, shaking his head and refusing to go in. The nurses are still chanting 'Fair hours, fair wages'. Nurse Olivia walks up to him holding her own sign looking resigned) Olivia: You can go, George. We won't throw donuts. George: Oh I can take the donuts. Olivia: Then what are you still doing here? George: Teachers strike of '03 mom walked the line for 48 days. I can't ... just, I can't cross. Olivia: So go home. George: I can't go home! You just don't go home. Yeah and get kicked out of the program. Lose my place as a resident. I'm a doctor, no way. Don't... Don't...I'm a union guy. (Olivia smiles broadly) Olivia: So that means ... George: Give me that sign. (George takes the sign from her and walks down the picket line. The sign reads 'Proud to be a Nurse'. The nurses applaud him) Olivia: Alright, Dr. O'Malley! (Grace's room) (Grace is having more trouble breathing than before) Meredith: Help! I need a nurse in here please! (A temp nurse named Angela comes in) Meredith: Her pressure's falling. She's stopped breathing. Angela: Whoa. Is she dying? Meredith: Are you a nurse? Angela: Um, I'm like a nursing student. Meredith: I need to intubate. Get me a 7 and a half tube. They're out in the hall. (Angela rushes out as Meredith prepares to intubate Grace. Angela comes back in quickly with a tray of stuff) Meredith: Not that one. The one that says seven five. (She hands Meredith the tube and she intubates. Angela holds a breathing bag and pumps it. Meredith checks Grace's heartbeat) Meredith: I'm in. Angela (smiles): Awesome. (Meredith gives Angela a look and she immediately stops smiling) (Exam room where Addison and Izzie are performing an ultra sound on a young black girl named Cheyenne Wood who is pregnant. Cheyenne's mother sits next to her) Cheyenne: Is that too much? Addison: It's a lot of extra amniotic fluid Cheyenne but your baby looks strong. Ms. Wood: Does that mean we can go? I mean appreciate you seeing us, I really do but this is a long drive for us and I can't afford to miss another shift. Addison (to Cheyenne): Unfortunately Ms. Wood the mass on the baby's neck is what's causing the build up in fluid. It's also obstructing her airway and the spine. Cheyenne: Mom. Ms. Wood: It's alright. Just listen. Addison: We're going to do a procedure called an exit surgery. Basically we do a C-section and only half deliver the baby. Cheyenne: Half deliver? Addison: That's right. We pull the head and the arms out but we don't cut the umbilical cord. Cheyenne: Why? Izzie: The tumor won't let air get to the baby's lungs. So we need the umbilical cord to keep her alive during the operation. It's kinda cool if you think about it. You'll be like your baby's life support machine. Addison: And then after the surgery if all goes well, we cut the umbilical cord and you'll be the mother of a healthy baby girl. How does that sound? (Cheyenne looks relieved) Ms. Wood: That sounds expensive. Addison: Well your doctor at the clinic is a former student of mine, so it's covered. (To Izzie) I'm gonna go head up and take this to the lab. (She leaves the room) Izzie: The hospital gets a write off the surgery. And it makes Dr. Shepherd look good, so ... Ms. Wood: So it's not charity? Izzie: It's not charity. What time's your shift? Ms. Wood: 6 to 6. Izzie: Graveyard. (Mrs. Wood nods) In Chehalis? Ms. Wood: Yeah. Izzie: It's 3 hours away. Better get going. (Mrs. Wood looks at her) I'll look out for her. (Cheyenne nods at her mother) (Meredith is walking down the hallway where she sees Richard standing in front of the OR board. She walks up to him) Meredith: Chief. Richard: Hello, Meredith. Meredith: Saw my mother this morning. Richard: Did you? How is she? Meredith: She's fine. Richard (uneasy): I'm glad to hear it. Give her my best. (He walks off) (The pit where Claire is now sitting up right on the bed with Wade sitting next to her on a chair. Claire and Wade are very touchy feely. Alex is there. Cristina is there also drawing a black line across her leg) Claire: Why are you... Cristina (interrupts): Oh I'm drawing a line to mark the borders of the infection. We'll watch it for a couple of hours. If it doesn't cross the line you'll get IV antibiotics. Wade: And if it does cross the line? Alex: Well it would mean the infection is aggressive. We'd have to do a muscle biopsy. Claire (stops giving lovey-dovey looks and looks concerned): You have to take out a piece of my muscle? Cristina (nods): Mmm Hmm. Claire: Well we're supposed to run a 10k tomorrow. Cristina: Oh, on this leg I doubt it. Alex: Can you tell us when you first noticed the rash? Wade: When we were climbing Rainer yesterday. (Sydney the cheerful Resident comes up to them) Sydney: Wow! You took the Emmons Glacier route? Claire: Please you can do that in an SUV. We did 'Liberty Ridge'. Sydney: Wow! That's hardcore. (She shakes Wade's hand) Hi. I'm Sydney Heron. These guys teacher. Claire (shakes her hand): Hi. I'm Claire. This is Wade. It's our honeymoon. Sydney: Wow, that's amazing. God, look at that rock. Cristina (annoyed): Ah did you sustain any trauma on the hike? Did you fall down? Or bang your leg against something? Claire: No. Wade: Oh, she cut her foot on some oyster shells at the beach a couple of days ago. (He turns to Sydney) We were windsurfing in 'Puget Sound'. Sydney: Oh wow sounds like you guys are going to need a honeymoon to recover from your honeymoon. (Wade and Sydney chuckle and Alex forces himself to chuckle. Cristina mean while checks Claire's leg) Claire: Ow. (Cristina continues checking) Claire: My leg's going to be ok though, right? Alex: Oh, yeah, yeah, it's probably just a simple skin infection. Cristina: Ah, no it's not. Look. (They all look closely at the black line. The infection has passed the line really fast) (Meredith is wandering down the hallway. Derek comes up to her) Derek: Hey. Meredith: Hey. Derek: Your dog's fine. Meredith: He's your dog now. Derek: Hmm. Meredith: I miss him. (Derek nods and is about to speak but Addison comes up and interrupts) Addison: He misses you too. Derek: Ah. Addison: You should come visit. (Meredith looks uncomfortable. Addison chuckles) The dog, I mean. Meredith: I'm walking away now. (Meredith walks off. Addison turns and faces Derek) Addison : So um I'm looking for a neurosurgeon to consult on a fetal spinal tumor. You know anybody good? (Derek chuckles) (Picket Line outside where the nurse's are marching and still chanting. George is marching with them, still holding his 'Proud to Be A Nurse' sign. Nurse Debbie, Olivia and Tyler are all walking behind George whispering to each other) Olivia: Don't ask George. Debbie: Why not he's a doctor? Go ahead. Olivia: Don't worry about it. Debbie: Just go ahead. (George notices this) George (to himself): I see whisper and point. I'm showing support, they whisper and point. (Olivia walks up to him) Olivia: George. George: What? Olivia: We need a favor. Debbie: Ava Jekins in PEDS, Room Forty-One, Fourteen. It's almost time to change her dressing and it's scary for her but if you sing the alphabet or the 'wheels on the bus' song she can handle it. (George looks mighty confused) Tyler: Mrs. O'Brien, Twenty-four, twelve. She'll have a major panic attack if they don't check on her at least once an hour. Olivia: And there's this guy in Twenty-nine, Twenty-four- George (interrupts): Hey, Hey, hang on! Hang on! (They stop walking near the side of the line) George: What you want me to cross the picket line? Olivia, Tyler & Debbie: Yeah. George (amazed): Why? Olivia: Because they're our patients too, George. (looks nervous) And we can't. (OR where Sydney is operating on Claire Solomon's leg. Alex and Cristina are helping and watching) Sydney: Anyone care to probe the wound? Cristina & Alex (at the same time): I do. Alex: I'd really like to try your method of healing with love. Sydney: I like the way you think Alex. (She hands him the scalpel while Cristina looks on annoyed) You do the honors. ( Sydney notices Cristina's look) Cristina, looks like someone needs to learn how to share. (To Alex) Oh, there just go ahead and slide it in. (A phone rings) Alex: Whoa. No resistance. Cristina (hisses to him): Let me see. (Cristina grabs the scalpel off him) Nurse (holds a phone up to Sydney): Dr. Heron. (Sydney listens to whoever is on the line) Sydney (into the phone): Yes? Cristina: Oh! No healthy muscle gives away that easily. Sydney: Oh my god. Oh this poor girl. (She pulls away from the phone and the scrubs nurse hangs up) Sydney: Ok everyone, we're locking down the O.R. All non-essential personnel must leave now. Cristina: Was that pathology? Is she... Sydney (interrupts): It's necrotizing fasciitis. Alex (amazed): The flesh eating bacteria? Sydney: In the flesh. (Meredith is entering Grace's room. Patricia is in there looking concerned) Meredith: Oh good somebody's in here. How's she doing? Patricia: You intubated her? Meredith: Yeah. Patricia (disapproving): You intubated her. Meredith (defensive): I had to. She was struggling to breathe. Her sats were in the 80s. She was in her room all alone. (She notices Patricia's look) What? Patricia: One of the temp nurses found the paperwork from her chart on the second floor. And... (Grace's friends are standing at the doorway of the room and are outraged) Agnes: You put a tube in Grace! Ruth: She put a tube in Grace? Eleanor: She put a tube in Grace? Patricia: Mrs. Bickham was diagnosed with end-stage COPD. She's on hospice. Meredith: End of life care? Patricia (holds out the chart with DNR on it): DNR. Do not resuscitate. (Ruth comes in and bangs her bag against Meredith's back. Meredith jumps and turns around startled) Ruth: You little schnook. You were supposed to let her die. (Meredith is surrounded by Grace's friends in Grace's room. Patricia has left the room) Eleanor: No machines, she said. Agnes: She did. I remember because her daughter Alice was there with her girlfriend... Ah She's a lesbian. (Meredith nods but looks uncomfortable) The daughter. Nice girls. But... Ruth (interrupts): Stop with the rambling Agnes. Make your point. Meredith: I'm sorry. (She walks out of their little surrounding circle and turns to face them) Meredith: Who are you, exactly? Mrs. Bickham's sisters? Agnes (chuckles): Oh no. No. (The other two shake their head) Her sister Rose died in '83. Ruth: May she rest in piece. Agnes: Influenza. Or croup. Eleanor: Only babies die of Croup! Rose died with a cold in her chest. Agnes: Pneumonia! Eleanor: Right, pneumonia. And there was her other sister, Harriet. Ruth: May she rest in peace. Agnes: They cremated her. Ruth: Gracie wanted to die. She made us all promise. Meredith: This really is something that I need to speak with her husband about. Eleanor: Lenny never talked much when he was alive. Good luck getting a word now. Meredith: Lenny's dead? Ruth: May he rest in peace. Meredith: But Grace said she just saw him. Agnes: Because she was trying to cross-over. Ruth: She almost died twice in the last month. Said she saw him each time. You ask me that's a little meshugena. Eleanor: It's not meshugena! He was waiting for her in the light. Agnes: Mmm Hmm. (Ruth rolls her eyes) Agnes (to Meredith): Which thanks to you, she can't reach now! (Eleanor nods) (George is still dressed in his normal everyday clothes walking quickly down the hospital hallway with a notepad. He sees the Chief opposite and darts to the side to avoid him) Richard: O'Malley, I need you to round all those 21...George (interrupts): I'm not here. Richard: Excuse me? George: I'm here but I'm not here. Richard (angry): You won't be anywhere in about thirty seconds if you don't... George (interrupts): Sir, all do respect, no offense intended. Ah but I won't cross the picket line. Richard: And yet somehow you're standing in front of me. George: Uh, yep well because some of the nurses want me to check on their patients and so I am but then I'm going right back out there to join them. Richard: You're a doctor! George: Yes sir ... but I'm also a union man. ... All do respect, no offense intended. Richard: Fine! (He starts to walk off) George (runs after him): Sir, while I have you here I'm supposed to tell you that ah Mrs. O'Brien in twenty-four twelve is allergic to chocolate but she pulls the allergy sticker off her chart every chance she gets. Richard: Wonderful. George: And ah that ah you're supposed to watch Mr. Roberts in Twenty-One Nineteen take and swallow his diuretics. Apparently he likes to hoard them under his mattress. (Richard stops walking and turns around angrily) Richard: Is that it? (George nods fast. Richard turns around) George: 40 to 50 hours of mandatory overtime is extremely... Richard: O'Malley! (George turns and runs off) George: Yes sir, I'm very sorry. No offense intended! (Waiting room where Cristina, Sydney and Alex are delivering the news to Wade about Claire's leg) Wade: What? Wait, flesh eating ... I mean this is some kind of joke right? She put you up to this. Cristina: Ah no it's not a joke. We have to amputate the leg. Sydney (disapprovingly): Cristina. (Cristina gives her a 'what' look) Wade: We're on our honeymoon. Sydney: I'm sorry Wade. I know this is scary but amputation is not the only option. Cristina: It's the only sane opt... (She stops herself and turns to Wade) Excuse me if we don't get this infection under control immediately she is going to die. Wade: But there is another option? Alex: Well we can try to save the leg by cutting out the infection. It won't be pretty but we might be able to keep it functional. (Cristina looks like she can't believe this is even being discussed) Sydney: Gold star for Dr. Karev. Wade: Ah I need to see her. Cristina: There's no time. Alex: By the time we take her out of anesthesia and put her back under ... you need to make a decision now. Wade: Uh I mean she runs marathons. This is our adventure honeymoon. It's, it's who she is. Sydney: Ok, then we'll do everything we can to save the leg. (Cristina looks upset and Sydney walks off. Alex follows and Cristina catches up to him) Cristina: You seriously think this is a good idea? Alex: I seriously think this is a way cooler surgery. (He walks off) (Cheyenne's patient room where Addison, Derek and Izzie are talking to her) Derek: Cheyenne, the prognosis is very good. So what we want to try to do is go in and get as much of the tumor out as possible during your surgery. Cheyenne: So my baby will be fine? Derek: Yes. Addison: You may be able to take your baby home by the end of the week. Cheyenne: That soon? Addison: Absolutely. She'll be all yours. Cheyenne: Oh. Ok. Derek: Ok. Now, if you and your mother have any questions Dr. Stevens will page me. All right? Addison: See you later. (Derek nods to Izzie and both he and Addison leave the room. Izzie picks up a book of Cheyenne 's bed table) Izzie: Oh, Shakespeare. Cheyenne: I was reading it to my baby. It's really homework for English. Was. The baby wasn't due for another few more weeks. And now I guess ... Izzie: No more school. Cheyenne: It's weird. It's like when you're in school ... you hate it. Izzie: Until you can't go anymore. (Cheyenne just stays silent) Izzie: Have you made any plans? Cheyenne: Plans? Izzie: Bought a crib? Called about child care? Looked into assistance? Cheyenne: Not yet. Izzie: You gonna live with your mom? Cheyenne: I'm supposed to be saving money to get my own trailer home. I don't know I guess I thought that I'd have more time. Nine months go by fast. Izzie (kinda teary eyed): Yeah, yeah it does. (She fakes a smile) I'll see you later. Cheyenne: Bye. (Izzie takes her chart and leaves) (OR where Sydney, Alex and Cristina are operating on Claire's leg) Cristina: So, Sydney, have you seen a lot of necrotizing fasciitis? Sydney: No have you? Cristina: If the infection moves to her bloodstream she'll die. Alex: If she wakes up without her leg she might wish she had. Sydney: Yeah, Dr. Karev is right. She's young, she's healthy, she's a newlywed. Cristina: And your treatment plan is based on? Cuteness? If she were an 80 year old man, you'd amputate in a heartbeat. Sydney: She's not 80. Where's your compassion? Cristina (disbelievingly): My, my compassion? Trying to save a patient from death is pretty compassionate. Sydney: I must say I'm disappointed in you. Why can't you be more like Alex? Cristina: Excuse me? Sydney: Yeah this guy, he's compassionate. He's warm. He's fighting with me to save Claire's leg. Alex: And we're going to win that fight. Sydney: Yes. (Alex laughs silently at Cristina but Sydney doesn't notice) Cristina: Ah excuse me, restroom. (She leaves the table) (Cristina is walking the hospital hallway looking for Burke. She finds him in front of the nurses' station outside the O.R board. She walks up to him) Cristina: Burke. Burke: Hey, I thought you were in surgery. Cristina: I was. Necrotizing fasciitis. Burke: No kidding? So why are you out here? Cristina: Because the new resident, ah she's the new Bailey. Except that she's the exact opposite of Bailey in the most absurd, horrifying, profoundly disturbing ways. Burke (warningly): Cristina. Cristina: I think the new resident is killing our patient. (Burke looks up at this) (Burke and Cristina are entering the OR with Sydney and Alex still operating on Claire's leg. There is only one other scrubs nurse in there) Burke: Dr. Heron is it? Sydney: It is and you are? Burke: Preston Burke. Sydney: Dr. Burke. Wow, no kidding. (She chuckles) I'm a huge fan. Burke: Thank you. I um I heard you had a case of necrotizing fasciitis and we don't see a lot of those around here. (Alex shoots Cristina an annoyed look) Sydney: Hmm. Yeah well being a cardiothoracic surgeon I wouldn't think you saw any. Burke: Right ... well I was just curious about what protocol you were following here. Sydney: You were curious or Cristina was concerned? Burke: I'll hope you'll forgive the intrusion. It's nothing personal. (She nods) It's just that we haven't worked with you before and Dr. Yang wanted to be sure... Sydney (stops doing the surgery, turns around and interrupts): Dr. Yang wanted to be sure that perky little bimbo cheerleader wasn't in here trying to kill a patient. Am I right? Now with all do respect Dr. Burke I know you don't know me very well but I'm pretty good at what I do. And my patient is a 25 year old marathoner and I've told her husband I'm going to try and save her leg. So my plan is to stand here for as many hours as it takes to scrape away every last cell of necrotic flesh. Now when I'm done, if it's still spreading, then we'll take the leg. And if we do then our eager young intern here can hold the saw. Now unlike Dr. Karev, kindness and compassion aren't very high on her list of priorities but a little bone-saw action well maybe that will earn me some respect. (She turns back to the surgery) Am I right? Now Dr. Yang, you ready to scrub back in? (Cristina leaves the OR upset) (Richard is talking to Grace's three friends sitting in a small waiting room. Meredith is standing watching) Eleanor: You're the head of this whole hospital? Richard: Just the surgeons. Eleanor (pats Richard's leg): Well they should make you the head of everything. Ruth (mutters to Agnes): She's batting the lashes. You see that, she's batting the lashes. Agnes: Dr. Webber, the point is Grace wants to be with her Lenny. She misses him terribly. Meredith: You realize if I pull out the tube, Grace will die. Agnes: We're old magpie, not daft. Ruth: Pull the plug already. It's what she wants. Richard: Ladies, I appreciate your concern for your friend but we need to contact a durable power of attorney to sign the release. Eleanor: That's Alice. Call Alice. Agnes: Grace's daughter. Ruth: She's a lesbian. Eleanor: Well that's ok, isn't it? I mean she still could have the power of attorney. Richard: Ah fine. We'll need Alice's signature. Ruth: Good luck. She lives in Oregon. Agnes: Oh she could fax it. Richard: I'm sorry. We'll need her original signature. Eleanor (coos): Can't we just skip that part? Ruth (mutters to Agnes): Bat the lashes again. I think it was working. Richard: Excuse me, ladies. (Richard stands up and starts walking away with Meredith) Meredith: You're like the old lady whisperer. (Richard cringes) They really cheer up when you come around. Richard: Meredith, you understand that if the daughter shows up tomorrow and confirms she is DNR ... Meredith: I have to kill my patient, I know. Richard: How you doing? Something I can do for you? Meredith: Oh I'm fine, sir. I don't need any help from you. Thank you. (She walks off) (Izzie is walking down the hall dressed to go home past Cheyenne's room. She gets teary-eyed as she sees Cheyenne reading her baby Shakespeare) (Joe's Bar) (A group of nurses are camped out at the bar. A large portion of them toast George with their beers and wines) Olivia: To Doctor O'Malley! Nurses: Yeah! (They clink glasses. George laughs) (Cristina, Meredith, Izzie and Alex are having a drink at the bar. Joe is serving them) Cristina: She called me unkind. Unkind and lacking in compassion. In front of my boyfriend! I am not unkind. Meredith: I think I have to kill a woman tomorrow. I have to take out the tube that's keeping her alive. (Meredith turns to look at the person sitting next to her. Cristina throws a peanut at her) Cristina: Izzie. Joe: This is the part where you say what's wrong with you. (Izzie remains quiet) Cristina: Where are you going?Izzie: I have to go, I forgot something at work. Meredith: I have to kill a woman tomorrow. Cristina: And that is a problem, why? I mean if it's what she wants, it's what she wants! And that is not unkind or lacking in compassion. I'm a very compassionate person! I'm more compassionate than you Alex! (Izzie leaves the bar) Alex: Shut your pie-hole Yang. (George comes up to the bar) George: Hey Joe, can we have another round please? (Joe hands Alex a drink) Alex: Yeah give Nurse O'Malley a drink on me. George: Heh, what'd you say? (George turns to his nurse pals) Hey uh Karev just called me a nurse. (To Alex) That's the worst you could come up with. Or wait is that an insult? Or a was I supposed to be... (George is interrupted by a nurse walking by purposely spilling her drink onto Cristina's lap) Nurse: Whoopsies. Cristina: Are you kidding me? I will kill you, you know that? Nurse: Bring it on! Cristina: Oh, she, oh Bring it on! Okay Mama. Let's bring it on! Oh look at her spry! What you wanna cheer it out soccer mom? Nurse: Oh soccer mom! (They both start yelling at each other. Joe interrupts) Joe: Hey! Hey! Hey! Beating each other up and there's not gonna be anybody left to set your broken bones. (They continue to yell ignoring Joe) Joe: Hey! (Meredith takes Cristina's arm and pulls her away) Meredith: We were just leaving. Cristina: Yeah because I gotta go save lives! Nurse: Bye! (Alex is smirking at the whole situation while George pushes through the nurse crowd) George: Excuse me, they're my ride. Excuse me. (Cheyenne's room)(Izzie dressed from the bar, enters Cheyenne's room) Izzie: You're awake. Cheyenne: Hey, yeah. Baby jumps up and down on my belly all night. It makes me have to pee all the time. (Izzie nods) Cheyenne: You work long hours, huh? Izzie: Yeah, but I'm off work now. I ... I just came back to talk to you. ... I grew-up in Chehalis too. Cheyenne: Serious? Izzie: Serious. Um, Forest Park . Cheyenne (smiles): The trailer (Izzie speaks at the same time) park behind the church. Izzie (continues): Yeah. On Route 6. Yeah. Cheyenne: My friend Shelley lives up there. Izzie: Yeah my mom still lives there. Cheyenne: No way. Izzie: Yeah huh. (They both smile) ... ... Can you keep a secret? (Cheyenne nods. Izzie reaches into her pocket and pulls out a picture of a young girl and hands it Cheyenne) Izzie: This is my daughter. (Izzie is now sitting next to Cheyenne) Izzie: In the picture she's 6 but she's 11 now. She lived in Santa Barbara but they moved. I don't know where. But I know her name is Hannah and she likes pigs. Cheyenne (chuckles): Pigs? Izzie (smiles): Yep, she collects them. Like figurines and stuffed animals, you know. I think it's because her mom probably read her 'Charlotte's Web'. Cheyenne: I thought you were her mom. Izzie (tear eyed): I'm her mother but I'm not her mom. ... Look um I know that where we come from this kind of thing doesn't get talked about but I wanted you to know that there's more than one way to be a good mother. I wanted, I wanted better for her than I could do at sixteen. Cheyenne (teary eyed): I love my baby. Izzie: Of course you do. But you're reading her Shakespeare. (Cheyenne starts crying softly) When you're working 12 hour shifts at the diner like our mom's, you won't be coming home and reading her Shakespeare. (Izzie smiles down at Cheyenne's stomach) (Burke and Cristina's apartment)(Cristina enters the apartment and finds Burke sitting in the dark holding a trumpet) Cristina: Huh, I could hear you from six blocks away. Burke: Sorry. Cristina: Don't be. I like it. (She heads to the fridge) I'm just not sure how the neighbors would feel which by the way is not a thing someone lacking in compassion would be concerned with. (She grabs a beer and heads to the bedroom) Burke: How's your patient's leg? Cristina: Carved all to hell, but still on her body. (She comes back to the doorway) We're watching it overnight. (Cristina notices Burke seems a little upset) What's going on? Burke: Never in my career have I questioned a fellow surgeon in their OR. I never understood what the problem was, an intern dating an attending, until today. (Cristina gives him an upset look and leaves the room) (Sunrise) (Picket Line) (A new day and the nurses are still chanting 'Fair hours, Fair wages') (Hallway) (George is walking with Meredith who is taking down notes from George from the nurses) George: And don't believe twenty-five nineteen when she you she tells that she went to the bathroom. She just wants to go home. She just says she went to the bathroom and then she's back here 2 days later. Meredith: Got it. (Burke walks by them) Burke: Hey! I need sutures in 2602! George: Can't help ya! (Burke stops walking and turns back to George. Meredith walks to the nurses' station nearby and George realizing what he just said turns around horrified. Izzie watches from a nurses' station) Burke: What? George: ... Fair hours! Fair wages! Fair hours! Fair ... (He stops, Izzie looks amused) It's no offense. Burke: None taken. (Burke walks off and George walks up to Izzie who hands him a cup of coffee) Izzie: Hey. How's the strike going? George: Do you know? Did you realize how rarely doctors say thank you and please to nurses? How few surgeons even know the names of them? ... (He suddenly looks up) I shouldn't be seen talking to you. (George moves a little to the side) (Meredith is rifling through some files. A young woman and her partner come up to her. Unbeknownst to Meredith, this is Alice, Grace's daughter) Alice: Excuse me. I'm looking for Richard Webber. Meredith: Can I help you? Alice: My name is Alice Bickham. (Meredith looks up instantly) I'm here about my mother, Grace. Meredith: Sure, um ... come with me, please. (She walks off and Alice and her girlfriend follow her) (Mrs. Wood comes up to Izzie, angry) Mrs. Wood: You said you would look after her. Izzie: I'm sorry? Mrs. Wood: You told me to go to work and said you would look after her. Izzie: Miss ah Wood can you ah just follow me? (She walks a few feet away from the nurses station so George can't hear.) Mrs. Wood: She's a kid you know? She's scared enough without you putting ideas in her head. How do you tell a scared kid to give her baby away? Izzie: I didn't tell her. I didn't advise her. I didn't pressure her. I just ... talked to her. (George is watching from far) Mrs. Wood: You're not a shrink! You're not her mother. She's my kid and you crossed the line. Izzie: I'm sorry. Mrs. Wood: No you're not sorry. You're superior. So what you're a big shot doctor and you get to judge us? You get to tell my kid how to live her life? Izzie: Cheyenne is smart. She's smart and she's thoughtful and she can have more. She can have more than a trailer park and a graveyard shift at a truck stop diner. Don't you want that for her? (Mrs. Wood glares at her) I mean if you can get past the fact that I'm superior and that I'm judging you and that I'm telling you what's best for your family. If you can just get past all of that, isn't it possible that I'm also right? (Izzie walks off) (Post-op room where Claire is recovering from her surgery. Alex and Sydney are in there. Wade is sitting at Claire's bedside) Sydney: Pretty spectacular recovery Claire. Claire (groggy): Really? Do you think it's going to be ok? Sydney: I think we got almost all of the necrotic tissue. A few times in a hyperbaric chamber and I'm thinking you'll be out of the woods. (Wade nods) Claire: Thank you for saving my leg. Sydney: My pleasure. (Cristina watches from the doorway) Now Dr. Karev here will explain the hyperbaric chamber. Dr. Karev. Alex: Thank you Dr. Heron. A hyperbaric chamber... (Sydney starts making her way out and passes Cristina) Sydney: I'll take that apology any time. (Cristina sighs) (Grace's room where all of Grace's friends are, Alice, her girlfriend, Meredith and Richard are standing around Grace's bed. Alice signs the form and hands it to Richard) Richard: Thank you. Meredith: So, I'm going to give her a sedative which will ease her discomfort and then I'll remove the tube. (Alice nods) Ok. Alice's girlfriend: Are you ready? Alice (nods): Yes. (Meredith is about to inject the sedative) Alice: Wait. (Meredith stops quickly almost as she was hoping Alice would stop it. Alice leans forward and kisses her mother on her forehead) Alice (whispers): Goodbye mommy. (Agnes pats her comfortingly) Oh ... do you want to... Agnes (interrupts): Oh no. No we already said our goodbyes. We just wanted to be here when Grace crossed over. (Meredith looks down upset. Alice nods) Alice (to Meredith): Ready. (Meredith moves to inject the sedative but Richard puts a hand her shoulder to stop her) Richard: I can take care of this. Meredith: I...I did it. I should undo it. (She injects in the sedative and turns off the life support machine) Alice's girlfriend: How long? I mean before ... Meredith: It can take a while. (Meredith starts removing the tubing from Grace) (Burke is writing in a very roomy medical supplies closet. Cristina enters) Cristina: She wants me to apologize. Burke: You crossed the line. Cristina: I'm not apologizing. Burke: You made me cross the line. Cristina: Oh, like I can make you do anything! (There is a bit of a silence) Burke: It's not your fault. It's mine. I'm your teacher. I'm supposed to be. But you came to me as your boyfriend and I responded that way. (Cristina gives him a look but she knows he's right) Cristina: I'm not used to being wrong. Burke: I know. But you're an intern. Second guessing a resident is not your job. (Richard and Meredith are standing outside Grace's room) Meredith: How long has it been? Richard (looks at his watch): 2 hours and 17 minutes. (Meredith nods) Meredith: I saw you there. At the nursing home with my mother. Richard: Oh. Meredith: They said you go to her 3 times a week. Richard (nods): Whenever I can. Meredith: Why did you keep it a secret? Richard (sighs): I don't know. Would you like me to stop going? (Meredith avoids the question) Meredith: I'm gonna go check on Grace. (She stops at the doorway of Grace's room) Meredith: Do you think she's lonely? My mother? Richard: Yeah, I do. (Grace's room where Grace's friends, Alice and her girlfriend, Richard and Meredith all keep a close watch over her) (OR where Addison and Derek are performing the surgery on Cheyenne's baby. Izzie is there helping them. Izzie cuts the umbilical cord and Addison takes the baby out. She hands the baby to Izzie who takes the baby girl to the side and rests her down a lined table. She smiles at the baby) (Grace's room where Grace is breathing very shallowly. All of the family and friends are touching and comforting Grace. Grace suddenly stops breathing. Meredith watches) Ruth: May she rest in peace. (Agnes struggles not to cry and puts an arm on Ruth's shoulder to comfort her. Eleanor rests her head against Agnes) Meredith: Time of death (she clears her throat) 12:42. (Meredith looks upset and heads out of the room) (Meredith is exiting out of the room almost in tears and looking like she's having difficult breathing. Derek from afar notices Meredith who has her back to him and is about to walk up to her. He looks confused as she rushes into the nearest linen closet) (Interior of the linen closet where Meredith is sitting down taking large gulping breaths. It seems like she's almost hyperventilating. Derek enters and looks concerned when he sees her. Meredith starts to cry as he crouches down next to her.) Meredith (crying): I don't. I can't. I can't. I don't want. I don't. I can't. I don't. I don't want my mother to die alone. (Derek just continues to look on comfortingly and concerned) Derek (whispers): Slow down. Just slow down. Shh. Slow deep breaths now. Slow deep breaths. (Meredith just continues to cry and breathe difficultly) (Derek stands up and reaches above Meredith's head. He pulls down a white paper bag and hands it to Meredith) Derek (calm quiet voice): Here. Take it easy. Slow down. Slow down. (Meredith breathes into the bag. She takes on of his hands in hers and holds onto tightly. Her breathing slows down and she stops crying. She rests her head against Derek's shoulder. Derek brings up his other free arm around her and holds her and rests his head against hers. Meredith pulls away the bag and eventually sits up) Meredith: I'm ok. Derek (smiles): You're ok. (She wipes a tear away and Derek brushes the hair away from her face) Meredith: Thank you. Derek: You're welcome. (They stare into each other's eyes for a long time almost as if they might kiss. Meredith breaks the moment by looking away. She gets up and walks out leaving Derek sitting in the closet by himself) (NICU where Izzie is checking on Cheyenne's baby who is in an incubator. Cheyenne is sitting on a rocking chair next to them) Cheyenne: Do you ever wish you hadn't done it? Izzie: No. I really don't. Cheyenne: If I give her up, if I give her away, do I still get to name her? Izzie: You can name her for yourself. Cheyenne: Did you name yours? Izzie: Uh ... Sarah. Cheyenne (smiles): That's a pretty name. Izzie (nods): Yeah. (Meredith is walking down the hall and up to Richard. Richard looks apprehensive and Meredith smiles) Meredith: I think you should keep visiting her. Richard: You sure? Meredith: Yeah. She lights up when you're around. She's alive. (Burke and Cristina are walking down the hall. A few feet away is Sydney who's talking to Alex. Cristina stops walking) Cristina: Oh, she's with Alex. I can't do this in front of Alex. Burke: Well, you can and you will. Cristina: Excuse me why aren't you apologizing? Burke: I'm, I'm an attending. I don't apologize to residents. You on the other hand are an intern. (He walks up to Sydney and Alex. Cristina follows) Cristina: Sydney, I just wanted to ... (She glances briefly at Alex who looks very smug and straining to hear what she has to say) ah Just wanted to ah to ... (very quietly) apologize for you know overstepping, I'm sorry. Sydney: Well that's the compassion I was looking for. Apology accepted. Okay, you wanna hug it out? (She holds out her arms for a hug) Cristina: Oh. (Burke raises his eyebrows and watches Cristina's reaction) Alex: Go, go hug. Cristina: No, yeah. Sydney: Come on. (Cristina backs away and walks off. Burke walks with her) (Patricia and Richard are in a small waiting room looking at a TV which shows the protest going on outside) Richard: We need them, Patricia. Patricia: Yes, we need them. (They start walking down the hallway) Richard: So where do I find the spare change? It's not like whatever's hiding underneath the couch cushions is gonna do it. Patricia: Well I seemed to remember pushing through paperwork for a multi-million dollar surgery robot. Richard: There was a two-year waiting list for that. It will bring a huge business. Patricia: And could you and the robot handle that business without nurses? (She walks off and Richard looks resigned) (Picket Line) (The line is deforming and the nurses are cheering. Richard is out there talking with them) MVO: We can't help ourselves. We see a line. We want to cross it. Maybe it's the thrill of trading the familiar for the unfamiliar. A sort of personal dare. (Derek's trailer, bedroom) (Addison and Derek are in bed, with Addison lying in Derek's arms) MVO: Only problem is once you've crossed it's almost impossible to go back. (Meredith's house, George's room) (George is lying in bed playing on his PSP. His door creaks open and closes. Izzie has come in. She gets in bed next to George and lies next to him. She sighs) George: Are you okay? Izzie: Yeah. Yeah I am. (George returns back to his PSP. His door opens again and this time Meredith enters. She goes to the other side of George's bed and lies down next to him. She closes her eyes) George: Are you ok? Meredith: Yeah. George (to both of them): What happened today? Meredith: Nothing. Izzie: Nothing. George: Ok. (He turns back to his game boy) Izzie: We don't know everything about each other, George. Meredith: Yeah. George: True. MVO: But, if you do manage to make it back across that line. You find safety in numbers. (Meredith turns off lamp on the bedside table and the whole screen goes dark) George: Anybody want to have sex? (Meredith laughs) Izzie: George. 2x16: It's the End of the World (Part 1)Original Airdate: 2/5/2006Written by: Shonda RhimesDirected by: Peter Horton(OR) (Large light overhead from an OR flashing on. A heart monitor is beeping in the background) MVO: It's a look patients get in their eyes. (Meredith is standing decked out in full scrubs gear in the OR which is dead silent aside from the heart monitor. She is breathing heavily and teary eyed) MVO: There is a scent. The smell of death. (Derek is standing opposite to her also in his scrub gear just looking at her. The OR is absolutely completely empty. No tables, no equipment, no other people, nada aside from them two. Meredith is holding out one of her hands to Derek) MVO: Some kind of sixth sense. (Meredith sheds a tear. The tear trails down her face to her chin, where it hangs) MVO: When the great beyond is headed for you, you feel it coming. (The heart-monitor flat lines and the tear falls from her chin) MVO: What's the one thing you've always dreamed of doing before you die? (The screen goes black) (Meredith's house, shower)(Izzie and Meredith appear to be naked showering together and scrubbing each other sensuously. Cristina is also in there helping them. They look like they're having a blast) MVO: Ok, hello? Clearly not my dream. (The shower screen door opens revealing George who also appears naked with a towel wrapped around his waist. The three girls turn their attention to them) Cristina (whispers): George. Izzie: You're the strongest most masculine man I have ever known. Cristina: You're smarter than me. And you've got really great hair. Meredith: I'm in love with you, George. I always have been and I always will be. (George enters the shower and shuts the door behind. He then re-opens it, tosses his towel on the ground. Scene switches abruptly to George falling from his bed in his bedroom in the house) MVO: See? I told you, not my dream. (He looks confused for a second. His bedroom door opens revealing Izzie in her pajamas holding a box of cereal. She sneezes loudly, startling George) Izzie: Ok. (She sniffles) This is the last time I gonna tell you this. (George scrambles to get his blanket to cover him if you know what I mean) If you're gonna clog up the toilet you've got to be willing to use a plunger. Otherwise we're gonna make you crap in the backyard. What are you doing on the floor? Get up. Something's wrong with Meredith. (She leaves the room and George lies down on the floor) (Meredith's bedroom where Meredith is still lying in bed. George and Izzie are both in her room standing at her bedside) Meredith: I'm just not going. Izzie: You have to go to work. You're an intern. Saving lives is not optional. Meredith: Yes it is. I'm staying home. Izzie (to George): You're supposed to be helping. (George moves down to sit on Meredith's bed) George: Uh Mer? Maybe um there'll be a horrible accident nearby the hospital. Cut a bunch of people open. Sternotomies, Craniotomies. That'd be fun, right? Meredith: I don't care about surgeries. (She grabs the pillow next to her and pulls it over her head) (Cristina is dressed for work standing in Meredith's bedroom) Cristina: You have a feeling? (Izzie and George are now no longer in the room. Meredith removes her pillow to see Cristina standing there) Meredith: Yes. Cristina: Ok, what kind of feeling? Meredith: Like I might die. Cristina: Today? Tomorrow? In 50 years? (Izzie and George now dressed for work, listening at the door outside Meredith's room) Cristina: Cause we're all gonna die eventually! (Scene switches back to the room) But now we're late. Let's go. Meredith: Cristina! Come on. (Cristina sighs. She sits down on the bed) Cristina: Ok. This is me being supportive. Meredith: Really? Cristina: Yeah, hey, fine. I'm totally supportive. Go. (Meredith sits up) Meredith: Ok the man I love has a wife. And then he chooses her over me. And that wife takes my dog. (Cristina has a confused look on her face) Ok she didn't take the dog, I gave it to her but I didn't mean to give it to her I meant to give it to him. But that does not change the fact that she's got my McDreamy! And my McDog. She's got my McLife! And what have I got? (Meredith stares at her as if to say nothing) Meredith (more calm and sad tone): Do you know I can't remember the last time we kissed. Cause you never think the last time is the last time. You think there'll be more. You think you have forever but you don't. (She slumps back down in the bed again and is hyped up again) Plus my conditioner decided to stop working and I think I have brittle bones. I just, I just need something to happen. I need a sign that things are going to change. I need a reason to go on. I need some hope. And in the absence of hope I need to stay in bed and feel like I might die today. (Cristina stands up thoughtfully for a second before yanking the sheets away from Meredith. She stands up over her) Cristina: Whatever! Everybody has problems. Now get your ass out of bed and get to work! Now! Move! Move! Move! (She kicks Meredith to move off the bed who does so very quickly) (George and Izzie are listening. The door opens) George (to Izzie): What were you saying? Izzie: I don't know. (Meredith gives them both disapproving looks as she makes her way to get ready. Cristina follows her) Cristina: We're good to go. (George and Izzie nod at each other) (Seattle Scenes) (OR Hallway) (Richard is standing in front of the OR board looking slightly uneasy. The board has very few surgeries scheduled on it. Burke walks up to him) Burke: Quiet board. Richard: I know. Burke: That's a bad sign. Richard: I know that. Don't you think I know that? (Derek walks up to them) Derek: That's a quiet board. (Richard groans loudly) Derek (to Burke): Is he in a bad mood? Burke: Quiet board. Derek: Right, he hate's a quiet board. Richard: I can hear you talking about me. Burke: We're just saying. Richard: Quiet board means trouble. A quiet board is death! A quiet board bodes bad news! (He turns around to face them) And stop looking at me like that! (He walks off) Burke: Dr. Shepherd. (He starts to walk off) Derek: Dr. Burke. (Burke stops walking and faces Derek) Derek: You and I, we've known each other for a while now, right? Burke: Yes. Derek: We've done several successful surgeries together. Burke (looks confused as to where this is leading): Yes. Derek: Your girlfriend is my ex-girlfriend's best friend. Burke: Yes. Derek (smiles): Why can't we call each other by our first name? (Burke stares at him for a bit) Burke: I don't think so. Derek: Seriously? Burke: Seriously. Dr. Shepherd. Derek: Dr. Burke. (Burke walks away) (Cristina, Izzie, George and Alex are in the pit getting ready for incoming cases in their lovely yellow gowns) Cristina (to Izzie): I haven't been in the OR in two days. I'm getting some OR time. (They all start making their way to the double doors where the patients come in) Cristina: We haven't had a decent resident this week. Izzie: Oh the last two weren't that bad. Alex: Doesn't matter which resident we get. They suck. George: They all sucked. Izzie: Yeah. (They've all walked to the door except for Meredith who is a few feet behind them to still putting on her yellow gown) George: I miss Dr. Bailey. (The door closes and the whole area goes deathly silent. Meredith looks a little ill. Empty nurses' station aside from Derek who is standing there watching her holding some files. Meredith turns to Derek) Derek: You all right?Meredith: I have a feeling. Derek: I get those. Meredith: Yeah? Derek: Yeah. (He moves a few feet closer to her) Meredith: And? Derek: If you wait long enough, it passes. (An elevator ding sounds) Meredith: Promise? Derek: I promise. (Meredith nods slightly and walks after where the others go. All the normal hospital sounds return gradually. Derek looks pensive. Addison walks up to him) Addison (smiling): Hey. Whatcha doing? Derek: Waiting for it to pass. Addison (confused): For what to pass? (Meredith is walking through the sliding doors to outside the pit where the ambulances come in. She comes up behind where Izzie and Alex are standing together and Cristina and George are standing in front of them) Alex (to Izzie): So you want to do charts later? Izzie: Never gonna happen. Alex: What? Izzie: Alex, I gave you your chance. You had your chance and you slept with someone else. (George rolls his eyes and Cristina looks like she wants to crack up laughing. She and George both chuckle) Izzie: I forgave you in the spirit of being a bigger person. Of rising above but these legs are closed to you now. The panties are staying on. So you and me? Never gonna happen. Alex: So you don't wanna do charts later? Izzie: Go stand over there. (She gestures for to move away from her) Cristina: Can we get back to the point? George: You had a point? Cristina: Yeah, which surgeon are we going to have to suck up to today? Bailey: That would be me! (They all turn around startled and find Dr. Bailey looking very pregnant but still dressed in normal everyday clothing standing behind them) Cristina: Dr. Bailey? Bailey: I've been gone 2 weeks. 2 weeks! And you ran off 2 residents! I've got people phoning me at home, screaming telling me my interns are Rosemary's babies. (They all looking slightly offended by that) Bailey: Nobody wants you! Do you think I have time for this? I am pregnant! I'm supposed to be on bed rest. I'm supposed to be growing a human being. I'm supposed to be calm! Do I look calm to you? Did I raise you fools to be pariahs? (George pushes past Meredith and Izzie and walks up right to Dr. Bailey who looks confused at George's behavior. He grabs her in a tight hug) George: You're back. Bailey: Ah! I'm not back. George (tightens the hug): You're not? Bailey (hits his back): Get off me. (George finally breaks the hug. He smiles at the other interns. Bailey shrugs off the hug. An ambulance can be heard approaching) Bailey: Uh Yang, Karev, Grey, stay here and wait for the incoming case. O'Malley page Addison Shepherd. (George nods and moves back into the hospital) Stevens get a wheelchair. Izzie: A wheelchair? Bailey: A wheelchair. (George dashes back to Bailey while Izzie goes into the hospital) George: What shall I tell Dr. Montgomery-Shepherd? Bailey (to Alex, Cristina & Meredith): What did I say? (They move off to meet the ambulance) George: Dr. Bailey? Bailey: What? George: What do you want me to tell Dr. Montgomery-Shepherd when she answers her page? (Izzie comes with a wheelchair. A large gushing sound is heard. Both Bailey and George look down at Bailey's feet. George takes a step back shocked and Izzie has a large oh my god look on her face) Bailey: Tell her my contractions are 10 minutes apart and my water just broke all over your shoes. (She moves past him to get to the wheelchair. George attempts to lift her into the wheelchair) Bailey: Uh, boy get off me! (Cristina, Alex and Meredith are standing in front of the incoming ambulance. They open the doors. A young paramedic helps a very powerful screaming lady who has blood spatters over her climb out of the ambulance. Alex and Cristina pass of the lady to Meredith who takes her into the hospital. There is another paramedic named Hannah Davies [Cristina Ricci] in the ambulance who looks very nervous. Alex looks down at the patient and sees that Hannah has her hand in a very large chest wound of the patient) Paramedic: Take her. Alex: Dude. Cristina: Yeah. (She and Alex both scramble into the ambulance) (Seattle Scenes)(Cristina and Burke are walking down a stairwell in the hospital) Cristina: James Carlson. Age 46. Paramedics found him unconscious and bleeding. Mechanisms of injury are unknown but he has a large sucking chest wound. And a wife with very healthy lungs. (They enter a hallway) Burke: Vitals? Cristina: Tachycardic in the 140s. BP holding in the 90s. (They walk for a bit) Burke: You were gone when I woke up. Cristina: Oh I, I had to do a thing. Burke: You didn't leave a note. Cristina: Yeah, well, I had this thing to do. You know I did this thing. Burke: And once again ... Cristina: What? Burke: We go to sleep. I think everything is fine and by the time I wake up you're just a little bit crazy. Cristina: Ok, I'm not crazy. I had a thing. Burke: Ok. (Burke enters a trauma room with the patient James Carlson. You can hear his wife screaming from far. Hannah is still there with her arm plugging the wound. Meredith is checking James' heart rate. There are other nurses and doctors in there as well, including the other paramedic who helped Mindy Carlson out of the ambulance) Burke: How's his respiratory effort? Meredith: Absent breast sounds on the right side. Air bubbling on the side of the wound. He's shocky and getting a little cyanotic. (Burke moves to check the heart rate) James (mumbles): My wife is ... (His wife is still crying and screaming loudly) Burke (to a nurse): Let's get him intubated and place an occlusive dressing over the wound. (to the Hannah) And who are you? Hannah: Hannah. Hannah Davies. Burke: Hannah, why do you have your hand inside my patient? Paramedic: I'd like to say for the record that I told her not to. Hannah: I tried to tamponade the wound with gauze and pressure but the only thing that would stop the bleeding was my hand. Every time I tried to move it he starts bleeding out. (Burke checks the wound) Hannah: Can I take my hand out now? Paramedic: You don't stick your hand inside of a patient when you don't know how he was injured. You don't stick your hand inside of a patient at all. Hannah: Yeah, I know that now! Burke (to the paramedic): Out of my room. Paramedic: She gets to stay? Burke: She has her hand stuck inside my patient. (Hannah smirks at the Paramedic guy who looks annoyed but he leaves the room) Hannah: Nice. Thanks. Burke: Oh don't get happy. You have your finger on a major bleeder. Mr. Carlson is running out of time. The only thing that you've won is an all expense paid trip to the OR. (to Meredith) Dr. Grey, prepare to transport her to the OR. (to Everyone) And let's make this happen quickly people. Cristina: Uh what, what do you want me to do? Burke: I want you to ... to make that woman stop screaming and tell us what happened. Cristina: Oh, I can't go to the OR? Burke: No. You have a thing to do. (Burke walks away) Meredith: What was that about? Cristina: If I'd known you were gonna get the good case I would've let you stay in bed. (Cristina walks off) (The pit where Mindy Carlson is still screaming her head off. Alex is standing in front of her. Izzie is as well but cringing at the sound) Alex: She's been going at least 15, 20 minutes. This must be like some kind of record. Izzie: Look at her. She's not even turning red. (Cristina walks up to them) Cristina: Good for her. Burke says shut her up. (Olivia walks in) Olivia: We've got an incoming trauma, MVC with a 30 minute extrication time and severe and intrusion damage to the car. (Mindy screams even louder at Olivia) Definite head injury. Stable vitals and everything else. 5 minutes out! (Olivia walks completely by them ignoring Mindy and heads out to meet the ambulance) Cristina: I got it. Izzie: I got it. Cristina: I got it first. (They both move towards the double doors) Alex: I thought you said Burke told you to shut her up! Cristina: No Burke told me to tell you to shut her up. (Alex sighs) Alex: Ma'am. Ma'am. (Mindy just screams at Alex) Alex: Mrs. Carlson. Are you injured? (Her screaming just continues which is very annoying) Alex: I need you to try and calm down. Mrs. Carlson. (A bit louder) Can you hear me? Can you hear me? (Mindy just screams. Alex looks fed and goes up to close to Mindy and screams loudly into her face. Mindy stops instantly screaming shocked) Alex: Good. Ok. Now can you tell me exactly what happened to your husband? (Mindy just starts crying loudly) (George is standing in the hallway peering into a patient room through the tiny window on the door. Richard comes by and notices this) Richard: What are you doing? (George turns around looking happy) George: Chief. (He points at the door) Bailey's in there. Richard (excited): Bailey's back? (Richard moves to the door to look in smiling but instantly stops. He looks at George mortified) Richard: O'Malley! George: She's in labor. Dr. Montgomery-Shepherd is examining her cervix. Richard: I can see that, quiet clearly! (George moves back to look through the door) Richard: O'Malley, stop looking! (George moves away from the door again but still smiling) George: Pretty amazing right? The miracle of life. Richard: Our Bailey. Becoming a mother. Feels good. Having Bailey back at the hospital. The balance is being restored. George: That's all I'm saying, sir. (Derek walks by and up to the nurses station nearby. He sees the two standing there) Derek: Hey guys. (He hands a nurse a file) Would you ah get this to Dr. Shepherd for me, please? (He turns back to the guys) What's going on? George (gestures to the room): Bailey's in there. Derek (smiling): Oh Bailey's back? (He grins) That's excellent. (He makes his way to the door to peer in and quickly loses his smile) Derek: And her cervix is being examined by my wife which is ah, which is a visual image I'll never get out of my head. Thanks for the warning. (George and Richard smile) George: Right. (Derek's pager goes off) (The door opens and Addison walks out) Addison: Well...Hmm the gathering of men outside the delivery room. How mid-century of you. (She moves to Derek who gives her a kiss on the cheek) Derek: Say hi to Bailey for me. Addison: Mmm. (Derek walks off. Addison walks up to the nursing station. George and Richard walk up to her) Richard: How's she doing? Addison: Taking it like a woman. (George and Richard exchange smiles) 6 centimeters dilated. 50% effaced and refusing all pain meds which I think is stupid but I'm not in labor so... (She walks off. The doors open suddenly and Bailey walks out) Bailey: What are you people doing out here? Richard: Are you alright? Can I get you anything? Bailey: A boy the size of a 10 pound bowling ball is working his way out of my body. Can you get me something for that? Can you get me a new vagina? Richard: Oh, well... Bailey: I didn't think so. Look everybody I appreciate the concern but I'm fine. It's just childbirth. All I need is my husband who should've been here by now. (George holds out a pad and a pen) George: Write down his number. I'll call him. I'll track him down. (Bailey takes the pad and pen and writes down her husband's number) Bailey: All right. Then go away. Give me some privacy. I don't want to see any of you again until after the baby is born. (She hands George back the stationery) Which if does like I told him to and stays on schedule, should be in about 4 and a half hours. (Bailey makes her way back into her room. George and Richard are still standing there smiling) Bailey: I mean it! (She closes the door. George turns to Richard) Richard (grinning): Bailey's back. George: She's back sir. (They walk off in separate directions) (Trauma room where Izzie, Cristina and various other nurses and doctors are checking on a large black man, lying down on a gurney) Izzie: He's my patient Cristina. Get your own. Cristina: I had one. Meredith took him. Izzie: So now you're gonna take mine? Cristina: If I can. Tucker: Is my wife here? Is she here? Izzie: Was she in the accident with you? Tucker: She should be here. She's supposed to be here. Izzie: We'll find her, Mr. Jones...(Derek enters the room) Derek: Ok, what do we got? Izzie: Ah Tucker Jones. Age 35. Lost control of his car. Hit the guard- Cristina (interrupts): He's got a chest contusion and (Izzie looks pissed at Cristina) a head CT shows a left side depressed skull fracture. And a temporal epidural hematoma. GCS 14 in the field. Now down to 12. His motor exams are due back. Derek: Okay let's get him on a gram of dilantin and 70g of mannitol. Izzie: I'm on it. (Cristina looks annoyed) Derek (to Tucker): Mr. Jones, I'm gonna need to do an examination of you, okay? (A phone starts ringing) Tucker: Ah, my phone. Answer it. My phone. My wife. You need to answer it. Derek: Ok, we're going to answer it. (to Izzie): Dr. Stevens, answer his phone. Izzie: But... Cristina: I got it. (She grabs the injections from Izzie) Derek: Mr. Jones can you squeeze my fingers for me, please? Mr. Jones? (Izzie looks mad and makes her way to answer the phone) Tucker: My phone. Derek: Mr. Jones I need you to squeeze my fingers. (Tucker starts seizing and Izzie answer's his mobile) Derek: Okay he's seizing. Get him on his side! Watch his arm. Izzie: Hello? Hello? George? It's me Izzie. Derek: All right. Let's get him to the O.R Izzie: No I don't have Bailey's husband's phone. What are you, I think I'd know if I have Bailey's husband's phone George. (The others start wheeling Tucker out of the trauma room while Izzie turns around shocked realizing that Tucker could be Bailey's husband) Izzie: What's Bailey's husband's name? (Izzie looks horrified) (OR with a large OR team and Meredith prepping for the surgery on Mr. Carlson. Hannah is all scrubbed up with her hand still inside Mr. Carlson) Meredith: How are you doing over there? Hannah: My hand is getting numb and I gotta tell ya, this whole insides are all bloody and squishy thing is so not good for my gag reflex. But I'm good. Is this ok? Me being in here like this. Meredith: Once Dr. Burke scrubs in. He'll have you remove your hand and then you can go. (Hannah nods) And we'll fix Mr. Carlson. Hannah: Good. Cause I know how much medicine I know and it's just enough to never be allowed in an OR. It's my second week. As a paramedic. I got out of school about a month ago. Meredith: I haven't been doing this that long either. Hannah: Oh. Talk about on the job training huh? (Scrub area where Burke is scrubbing up. Derek walks in to scrub up as well) Derek: Dr. Burke. Burke: Dr. Shepherd. (Addison comes up to them) Derek: Hey. Addison: Hey. You've got Dr. Bailey's husband on the table? Burke: Bailey's husband is going into surgery? Derek (nods): Got into a car accident trying to get to the hospital before the birth. Addison: What do we tell Bailey? Derek: Nothing. Let's just wait until I get in there and see how bad the damage is. Have something concrete to tell her. Addison: Yeah, no use upsetting her until we know. Okay, keep me posted. (She moves to leave) Hey, Preston. Burke: Good seeing you Addison. (Derek looks amazed as Addison leaves) Burke: What? Derek: She gets to call you by your first name and I don't. Burke: I like her. Derek: And you don't like me? Burke: No. (He walks off leaving Derek looking after him) (Derek is entering the OR where Tucker is lying on an operating table being prepped for surgery. Izzie and Cristina are one of the many doctors in there) Derek: How are we doing? Izzie: He's stabilized. Anesthesiologist: I'm just about to put him under. Tucker: Doctor. (Derek walks up to him) You, you're Shepherd, right? Derek: Yes I am. Tucker: I thought so. Miranda ... she really likes you. Derek: I like her too. Tucker: We're having a baby. Derek (nods): I know. I'm going to care of you. I'm gonna get you back to Bailey, ok? Safe and sound. (The anesthesiologist moves to put Tucker under) (The pit where it appears Mindy has stopped crying. Nurse Tyler has helped Mindy change into a hospital gown and got her bloody clothes from her. Alex is at her bedside) Tyler: All this blood and none of it's hers. Alex: Yeah she's fine. Acute-anxiety reaction. Give her 2 diazepam PO to calm her down. Tyler: She in shock? Mindy: I'll say. (Tyler and Alex exchange a look) Alex: Can you tell us exactly what happened? Mindy: You mean the shock part? It was shocking. I'm shocked. You tell my husband when I get my hands on him; He's a dead man! Do you hear me? Scare me like this. Alex: Exactly how was your husband injured? (A man named Paul calls out) Paul: Mindy? Mindy? Are you in here? Mindy: I'm over here. You moron! (A middle aged man looking fairly stressed out and kinda dressed like a war veteran walks up to the group) Paul: How's James doing? Mindy: Oh he's bleeding all over the place. That's how he's doing! (She yells) The girl of the ambulance put her hand inside of him! That's how he's doing! Paul: What are you yelling at me for? Mindy: Because! Because you and James are like idiots! Playing like 8-year olds! (Alex tries to interrupt) Paul: Ok we don't play. We re-enact. Mindy: You play! You put on your costumes and build your stupid toys and you play! Paul: We re-enact. Mindy: Nobody re-enacts World War II. You moron! (Alex walks up to Paul) Alex: Exactly what happened? Mindy: You wanna know what happened? What happened is my husband and his moron best-friend... Paul (interrupts): Can you stop calling me a moron? Mindy: Moron best-friend! Decided to build some kind of big gun. Paul: Yeah an exact replica of the finest allied anti-tank weapon of World War II. The M9A1 bazooka. Mindy: So they put on their stupid costumes and they go out into the backyard and they try to shoot the thing! (Alex looks a little confused) Paul: I'm the gunner. James is the loader. Ok we follow the specifications exactly. (Alex nods) You should see it. It's a 60 millimeter. One and a half pound rocket. It's a beauty. Mindy (angry): It didn't work. So like an idiot my husband has to go and stand in front of his big gun to see what went wrong! That's when the stupid toy starts working! (Alex starts looking concerned) Paul: Stop calling it a toy. Mindy: It's taken up half my garage. I'll call it whatever I want! Alex: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Whoa, he shot himself with a bazooka? Mindy: Yeah! Alex (turns horrified to Paul): He shot himself with a bazooka? (Paul nods) Mindy: Like I said, morons! The pair of them! Alex: Was there an explosion? Paul: Huh? Alex (insistent): Was there an explosion? Paul: No. Why? (Alex looks beyond horrified) Paul (horror-struck): Oh crap. (Alex runs out of the ward sprinting) Mindy: What? What is it? (Alex is sprinting down a hallway. Richard sees him) Richard: Hey! Slow down! (Alex ignores him and keeps running) (Derek is in the OR about to start surgery on Tucker with a drill) Derek: If Bailey asks, I'm not the one who did this. (He starts drilling) (Bailey is in her patient room holding her mobile looking concerned. She opens up her phone and starts dialing) (Alex is sprinting down another hallway) (OR where Mr. Carlson is. Burke is about to start the surgery) Burke: Okay everyone. I'm going to do a thoracotomy and Hannah here is going to pull her hand out. Dr. Grey is going to clamp the bleeder when we have more exposure. (To Hannah) Ready? Hannah: More than ready. Burke: Scalpel. (A nurse hands him a scalpel) (Alex is sprinting down the hallway, breathing hard and entering a stairwell) (George sees Tucker's mobile phone ring but going un-answered) (Bailey in her room on her mobile) Bailey: Uh, Tucker Jones you better lying in the street somewhere dead, mister (She starts getting a contraction) because when I get my hands on you (she calls out in pain) I am having your baby here mister! (Alex sprinting up the stairs) (OR with Burke about to cut Mr. Carlson) Burke: Ok, on the count of the 3. One. (Alex running down a hallway. Scene switches back to Burke) Burke: Two. (Alex running. Cut to Burke about an inch away from flesh and from making an incision) (Bailey in her patient room moaning as the contraction passes) (OR as Burke just presses the scalpel against Mr. Carlson's skin. Alex slams open the door breathless) Alex: Dr. Burke? I need to speak with you. Burke (annoyed): I am in surgery, Karev. Alex (insistent): You wanna talk to me sir. (Burke looks at him for a bit before handing the scalpel back to the scrubs nurse. Burke makes his way over to Alex who's standing at the doorway while the OR team including Hannah just look over at the two) Burke: Karev, if you interrupt me in my OR it better be for a good damn reason. Alex (interrupts): Was it through and through? Burke: What? Alex: The wound on James Carlson. Was it through and through. Burke: No, it was just an injury. No exit. Why? (Alex looks resigned) (Hannah and Meredith) Hannah (to Meredith): He's cute. He single? (Meredith just stares at Burke and Alex who are talking in hushed tones. The OR team give each other confused looks. The anesthesiologist Dr. Milton also looks confused) (Burke takes one step back into the OR and Alex half-closes the door watching) Burke: Hannah. Hannah: Yes, Dr. Burke? Burke: What do you feel? Inside of Mr. Carlson. What is your hand touching? Hannah (confused): What do you mean? Burke: Is your hand touching anything hard? Meredith (confused): Hard? Burke: Like metal? HannahHHH: Um, I don't know. (Hannah attempts to move her hand) Burke: Don't move your hand. Just tell me what you feel. Meredith: Dr. Burke, what's going on? Burke: Hannah?Hannah: Um, my finger tips are touching something...kinda hard. (She nods) Yeah, yeah definitely. Dr. Milton: Oh my god! Burke (admonishing tone): Dr. Milton! Hannah (panicky): What? What's wrong? Burke: Hannah, I don't want you to move. Not your hand, not your body. Not an inch. Hannah: Ok you should know your starting to scare me. Burke: Don't be scared. Everything is going to be fine. Dr. Grey could you ah... (He motions with his head for Meredith to come forward. Meredith leaves the table and walks up to him looking very confused) Burke (quietly to Meredith): I want you to walk out of this room. Walk, do not run. Go and tell the charge nurse that we have a code black. Meredith: I'm sorry, code black? Burke: Code black. Tell him that I am sure. And then tell him to call the bomb squad. (Meredith looks concerned and scared) (OR team now including Alex and Meredith standing outside the OR which has now only Burke, Hannah, Dr. Milton and James Carlson) Alex: Can you imagine? What she stick her hand in there for anyway? Meredith: She was trying to save his life. Alex: And now she might die because of it. (Burke opens the door and steps outside) Meredith: What do we do now? Burke: I go back in and wait for the bomb squad. You leave. You all leave. (Most of the team starts leaving but a few stand their ground including Meredith) Alex: Mer, you coming? (Meredith turns and gives him a look) It's your funeral. (He walks off with the others) Meredith: You need a surgical team. Burke: All I need is Dr. Milton to keep him under. I can do the rest myself. (Meredith and 3 other people from the OR team just stand there) burke: Fine. But you wait by the elevator. I don't want anybody in here that doesn't need to be in this OR. When the bomb squad arrives we'll take it from there. Until then Milton and I are doing this alone. Now, go. (They all walk off to stand by the elevator) (Bailey's patient room where Addison is helping Bailey to do some exercises to lessen the pain of her contractions) Bailey: Ok, ok, ok. (The contraction passes) Ah! (George enters) George: 8 minutes apart. Addison: There is no shame in an epidural, Miranda. Bailey: Epidural increases the possibility of a C-section. (George places a suitcase with Bailey's clothes on the bed) Addison: It also decreases pain. Miranda, this is a big baby. It's your first baby and I'm telling you it is not gonna be a short or an easy labor. Bailey: Mmm, I can handle a little pain. No problem. (George opens the door to leave and watches from the doorway. Bailey stands up with the help of Addison and goes to sit on the couch in her room) Bailey: Women all over the world do this at home. Addison: Mmm hmm. Bailey: With nothing more than a pair of scissors and a bucket of hot water. (They both sit down on the couch) George: Well women all over the world also die giving birth at home every single day. (Both Bailey and Addison give George I can't believe you just said that looks) George: I did not just say that. (Addison shakes her head) Bailey: You're supposed to be making yourself useful and finding my husband. George (confused): What? I... Addison (interrupts): He's ah not here. (Bailey looks disbelievingly and George shrugs) Bailey: Oh now he should be here by now! Addison: Ok we're going to go find him. Right, Dr. O'Malley? George: Right. (He leaves. Addison's pager beeps and she does a double take when she sees it) Bailey: What? Addison: Oh nothing. I'll ... I'll be right back. (She leaves the room) (OR where Derek is performing surgery on Tucker. Izzie and Cristina are watching from afar. Derek's pager goes off) Derek: Yang, could you check that? (Cristina moves to check his pager and raises her eyebrows at the pager. She moves to make a phone call) Izzie: How's he doing? Derek: Oh, it's touch and go. I've located the clot. I'm just trying to find the source of the bleeding. Go and find Addison and tell her that he's in worse shape than I thought. (Izzie leaves and Cristina hangs up the phone) Derek: What'd they want? Cristina: They want us to evacuate. Derek: Evacuate? Did they say why? Cristina (questioning tone): Ah no but your pager said 'Code Black'? (Derek looks up startled from the surgery) Derek: You sure they said that? Cristina (nods): Yes. Derek (to himself): Could be a drill. Even if it's not a drill I can't evacuate. I've got an open brain on the table. I'm not leaving Bailey's husband on the table with his skull flap open so (he speaks up louder) if anybody wants to go they should go. Anybody want to evacuate? (They all stand there) Going once. Going twice. Three times. (Nobody leaves) Derek (to Cristina): You're sure they said Code Black? Cristina (nods): Yes. (Elevator where George gets on. Addison is already standing there. Other people are in there looking like they're going home) George: I don't like having to lie to Dr. Bailey. Addison: Now's not the time Dr. O'Malley. George: She'd want to know about her husband. (His pager goes off. The doors begin to close) George: Code Black? What's a 'Code Black?' (Izzie runs to the doors) Izzie: Wait! Hold it! Whoa. (She stops the doors from closing and enters the elevator) Izzie: Dr. Shepherd. The other Dr. Shepherd wanted me to let you know that Tucker's bleed is more extensive than he originally thought. It's gonna be a few more hours before he has anything concrete to tell Dr. Bailey. Addison: Thanks Stevens. (The doors shut and George moves to speak to Izzie) George: What's a 'Code Black'? Izzie: A what? (She moves to look at his pager but her own goes off which she checks) Izzie: 'Code Black'? Code Red, Code Blue, Code White. I've never had a 'Code Black' before. (She looks to Addison) Dr. Shepherd? Addison: Just, just go back to your locker room and wait for your resident to give you instructions. Izzie (now concerned): We don't have a resident. George: What's going on? Izzie: Is it something bad? (The elevator dings and the doors open to reveal chaos on the floor with nurses, doctors and many police officers running around) Addison: Yeah, it's something bad. (OR with Mr. Carlson. Hannah is still there looking very nervous. Dr. Milton is slowly pumping the manual ventilator, an ampoule bag. Burke is standing a few feet away watching) Hannah: So, so I'm touching live unexploded ammunition? Burke: I'm afraid so. Hannah: Huh. Not the greatest feeling in the world. Burke: No. I guess not. Hannah: And he's still out? Dr. Milton: Yeah. Hannah: But he's not hooked up to the machine anymore? Burke: I had Dr. Milton take him of the ventilator. The flow of oxygen posed a danger. The ambu bag is breathing for him now. Hannah: But he can't hear me? Burke (shakes his head): No. (Hannah nods and looks down) Burke: Hannah? Hannah (panicky): What if I just take my hand out really quickly? Burke: We'd have to ask the bomb squad that when they arrive but I'm guessing that would cause the ammo to shift and explode. Hannah (nods teary-eyed): Oh. Burke: Hannah? Hannah: Yeah? Burke: You're hand is keeping Mr. Carlson from bleeding out. You are keeping him alive. Hannah (nods and closes her eyes): Right. And the bomb squad is coming. Burke: The bomb squad is coming. Hannah (nods again even more teary-eyed): Ok. Ok. (Burke nods) (Richard is standing on the stairs nearby a nurses' station. He's giving a meeting to many attendings and residents. Addison walks up to the group with George and Izzie following) Richard: We're having pre-op patients transferred to Mercy West and all trauma re-routed to Seattle Presbyterian. There is no danger to the north, south and west wings of this hospital. Just the east surgical wing. That said anyone who wants to leave can leave. No one stays unless they volunteer to stay, understood? (The group nods) Ok. (The group starts to break up and Richard starts walking off and Addison approaches him with George and Izzie listening but a few feet behind them) Addison: Richard, it's a Code Black? Really? Richard: Yes, I've shut down the OR's. Addison: Wait to trauma? Richard: To everything. Addison: Wait a minute to everything, everything? Richard (stops walking): As of ten minutes ago all the operating rooms at Seattle Grace were completely evacuated with the exception of Dr. Burke's team. Izzie: And Dr. Shepherd's team. Richard: What? (He walks up to Izzie) What do you mean Dr. Shepherd's team? Izzie: They're still in OR two. (Nurse Debbie comes up to them) Debbie: Bomb squad just arrived. Richard: Excuse me. (He leaves) (Bomb squad is coming off the elevator onto the O.R floor lead by a man named Dylan Young) Dylan: You're the surgical team? Meredith: Yes. Dylan: Dylan Young, bomb squad. (to his team) All right spread out and check the area and then we'll secure the patient. (he turns back to Meredith) Where are they? Meredith (points to the OR down the hall): Dr. Burke has them in there. Dylan: Right, the rest of this floor has been evacuated? Meredith: It has. Yes. Dylan: Okay, you stay here. Nobody moves unless I say so. (A bomb squad member calls out) Man: We've got people over here. (Meredith looks confused) Dylan (to Meredith): I thought you said the floor had been evacuated. Meredith: I thought it had. I'm not in charge or anything. (Cristina is yelling at a bomb squad member and blocking him from entering the O.R. Meredith sees this) Meredith: Cristina! Cristina (to the bomb squad guy): Back Up! Meredith: Oh no she will hurt him! Cristina (to Meredith): What's going on? Meredith: Bomb in a body cavity. Cristina: Man. All I got is Bailey's husband's open brain. Meredith: What procedure? Cristina: Craniotomy with Shepherd. Meredith: Shepherd's got Bailey's husband on the table? Dylan: Excuse me. Meredith (they both ignore him): Bailey's having a baby! Dylan (louder): Excuse me! Stop talking! (Cristina and Meredith give each other looks and move away from each other) (Izzie is sitting against the wall in a hallway overlooking the floor below filled with the police and hospital staff. George comes up, sits next to her and hands her half of his sandwich) George: Eat something. Izzie: You knew Meredith and Cristina would be on a floor with a bomb? George: Yeah. Izzie: Is it wrong that we're jealous? It's alright that we're jealous, right? George: The fact that we're jealous because they might blow up and die is not a reflection on our character. It's about feeling useless. Izzie: Ineffectual. George: We couldn't even get Meredith out of bed this morning. We had to call in Cristina. How embarrassing is that? Izzie: You know what I think George? I think Meredith and Cristina are doers. George: They do. They're doers. Izzie: They do and we ... (she sighs) we watch. We're watchers. (They both look pretty down at this. Izzie notices Alex helping out on the floor below) Izzie: We have to become more proactive George. We have to become doers. George: Fight for what we want. Izzie: We have to do. George: Yeah. (Izzie stands up and walks off) Oh you mean ... (he stands up) We are starting right now. Ok. (Izzie is walking down an empty hallway very determinedly. She enters the Doctors' lounge where Alex is in there by himself making a cup of coffee) Izzie: Alex. Alex: How crazy is this. Dude, it's like the apocalypse. Izzie: Alex. Alex: It's true. Look around you. Half the people who are supposed to be saving lives fled the building to save themselves. Bailey's husband almost died coming to see his kid get born. (Izzie moves to speak but Alex keeps talking) The annoying twins are down on the OR floor with a guy who literally might explode in their faces. It's a morgue waiting to happen in here. Just saying people should get while the gets good because they're might not be tomorrow. Izzie: Alex! Alex: What? (Izzie and Alex are in a linen closet making out passionately. They break apart) Izzie: Take off your pants. (She starts taking off her shoes and socks) Alex: Izzie what are you doing? Izzie: I'm being a doer. Getting while the getting's good. Now take off your pants. (She starts removing her top) Alex: Look when I said the apocalypse I meant it metaphorically not literally. (Izzie removes her top leaving her standing in her bra. She takes out her hair from its bun) Izzie: Alex. I haven't had sex in 8 months and 12 days. I'm horny, I'm half-naked and saying yes. You wanna stand there and talk metaphors or do you wanna literally take of your pants! (Alex nods) Okay. (Alex throws down his pants and stands up eagerly as Izzie removes her bra) (Derek is still operating on Tucker with his O.R team. Dylan stands at the doorway) Dylan: Dr. Shepherd there's an explosive device in the OR next door. I need you to evacuate now. Derek: Yeah and I've got a guy who's brain is exposed on this table. I'm not going to walk away and leave him to die. (to his O.R team) The rest of you can go. (The majority of the OR team leaves but a few stay. Dylan doesn't look very happy) Dylan: You close him up. You do whatever you have to do. The 'Chief of Surgery' has authorized to tell me you cannot stay here. Derek: The 'Chief of Surgery' doesn't scare me. Dr. Bailey scares me. I'm not going to be the one to let her husband die. And that's what would happen if I put his skull flap on in this condition. Bomb or no bomb. Now get out of my OR. (Dylan closes the door) (Bailey is in her room standing up trying to pass off another contraction. Addison comes in) Bailey: Trying to get gravity to do me a favor. I'm 9 centimeters dilated. I need that last centimeter. Addison (distracted): Good. That's ah ... good. (She avoids looking at Bailey. Bailey notices this) Bailey: Dr. Shepherd? Where exactly is my husband? (Addison faces Bailey teary-eyed) Addison: He's with my husband. (Addison gives Bailey the news) (X-ray viewing room where Burke is Dylan looking at x-rays of Mr. Carlson. There's also another bomb squad guy there as well) Dylan: There is no telling how dangerous it is. We need more info. Burke: The longer we wait, the greater the chance he'll bleed out and die. (OR with Hannah and Dr. Milton. They're both wearing flak jackets now. They both seem very scared) Dr. Milton: Pink mist. Hannah: Excuse me? Dr. Milton: That's what the bomb squad calls you when you blow up. Pink mist. I read that somewhere. Bomb goes off and...anyone in range explodes into a billion pieces. You're liquid. There's nothing left. (Hannah does not look happy hearing this) Just flecks of human flesh and blood. Pink mist. Sometimes they don't even find a finger. One minute you're a person, the next ... you're bloody rain. (Milton stares at Hannah for a bit) Dr. Milton (holds out the ambu bag): Here take this. Hannah: What? Dr. Milton: Go ahead. (Hannah takes the ambu bag with her free hand) Now I want you to squeeze it in even beats. Ok? (Hannah begins squeezing the bag) Now not too fast. Not too fast. There you go. (He starts backing out of the O.R slowly and turns to leave. He reaches the door) Hannah: Dr. Milton? Dr. Milton: I've got kids. (Hannah looks shocked as she realizes he's leaving her) Even beats, ok? That's it. (He leaves the OR, leaving Hannah thoroughly scared by herself) (Conference room where Richard is sitting talking to Mindy. Paul is pacing around the room) Mindy: What about my husband? How long can he stay like that with live ammo inside him? Richard: I honestly don't know. Mindy: But you're going to try to save him, right? Richard: We're gonna try. First the bomb squad has to determine the best way to retrieve the device. Paul: I'm sorry, Mindy. I'm so sorry. Mindy: Shut up. We've got 3 kids and you've got him building bazookas! (she turns back to Richard) Oh god. He's gonna die. (She starts crying) Richard: Ah Paul why don't you go with the officer there and answer his questions about the device you guys built. (There is an officer standing at the doorway as is Alex. Mindy sits down) Paul: Oh anything, anything to help. (Paul leaves and Alex comes in) Richard: Uh Karev, why don't we get Mrs. Carlson a cup of coffee. (Alex nods and leaves. Richard pats Mrs. Carlson comfortingly) Mindy: I guess I should look on the bright side. It's not like this can get any worse. I mean this is it ... this is bad as it gets, right? (Richard is silent) (George enters Dr. Bailey's room. Bailey is pacing around. All of her stuff is piled on the table in front of her bed) George: Dr. Bailey, I was just... Dr. Bailey what...Bailey (interrupts): Can someone find me my suitcase? I need my suitcase. I'm going home. George: Dr. Bailey, you're having a baby. Bailey (angry and upset): There's not going to be any baby born today. You hear me? I'm holding it in! (George looks shocked) I'll have him tomorrow. Just not now. Not like this. No! Just, no. (She has another contraction and struggles not to cry) I'm going home. I'm going home right now. (Crying) I can't. I can't do this without my husband. I can't do this alone. (The contraction passes) Ah! Ok, ok, ok. (Cristina and Meredith are standing in the OR hallway watching Dylan and Burke discuss the situation in the x-ray room) Meredith: So how are they going to remove that ammo without killing Hannah and James? (Cristina walks up to the outside of the OR with Hannah and James) Meredith: Cristina! (Meredith walks up to her quickly) The bomb squad guy said you're supposed to stay away from there. Cristina (peers into the O.R through the window on the door): Is it me or is she shaking? (They both look in. They see Hannah shaking and squeezing the ampoule bag) Meredith: Is she squeezing that ambu bag by herself? Cristina: Where is Dr. Milton? (They open the door slowly. Hannah is by herself and is very pale. She's also shaking very badly but still squeezing the bag. She's very nervous and teary-eyed and scared) Meredith: Hannah? (Hannah looks at them) Where's the anesthesiologist? Hannah: He um ... he left. (To herself) He didn't wanna die. (She struggles not to cry and breathes erratically) Meredith: Hannah. Hannah: I think I'm going to take my hand out now. (X-ray room with Burke and Dylan) Dylan: When the hell are people going to learn? Burke: Well it may not be as bad as it seems. Dylan: Her hand is holding that device steady. Burke: Or maybe her hand is simply in there with the ammo. We can't know. Dylan: Well my guys talked to the friend. That device is home made which means it's unstable and very unreliable. It could be a dud but we have no way of knowing. Add that to the fact you've got a surgeon in the OR next door refusing to leave. (Burke looks surprised at that) And a nervous paramedic's hand in the body cavity. Burke: It's definitely as bad as it seems. Dylan: That's what I'm saying. Cristina (calls from the other OR): Hey, somebody help! Help here! (They all sprint from the room and across the hall to the other OR. Dylan and the other bomb squad guy to leave. He and Burke enter the OR. Cristina is now pumping the ambu bag. Meredith is standing next to Hannah trying to comfort her) Hannah (upset): I think I'm going to take it out now. Meredith: Ok we're almost to the finish line. You can do this. Hannah (crying): No, no. No, I just want to take it out and be done with it. Burke: Hannah. It won't be much longer. Remember you're keeping him from bleeding out. Hannah (very upset): No! (gasps) I am 22 years old! I should not even be in here! This is some kind of mistake! Dylan (to Burke): She's panicking. We need to clear the room. Meredith: I'm not leaving. Burke: Grey, let's move! Meredith: I'm not leaving her. Dylan: Get everyone out now Dr. Burke. Burke: She's my intern. I am responsible for her. (Meredith has her hand on Hannah's arm that is inside James. Everyone starts talking at once) Hannah: No, it's gotta come out! It needs to come out! Burke: Yang, go with Dylan! Cristina: You go with Dylan.Meredith: It's alright. Hannah, look at me. Hannah (shakes her head): NO! It's gotta come out. No, NO! Meredith: Hannah, look at me. You can do this. Dylan: Hannah, you need to calm down. You need to relax. Everything's gonna be fine. Hannah (crying): No! Burke: Hannah. Hannah. Meredith: Hannah. You can do this. Hannah: No. It has to come out. Burke: No, you keep it there. Just a little while longer. Hannah (yells): I have to! I have to! (She pulls her hand fast. Burke, Dylan and Cristina all fall to the ground with the arms above there heads. Meredith is still standing. Hannah runs to the door. She opens it and leaves a bloody handprint on the wall as she runs out of the room. Meredith just stares after Hannah. The door closes slowly) (Cristina stands up slowly and sees that Meredith now has her hand inside James Carlson. Burke stands up as well) Cristina (looks shocked and whispers): Meredith. Meredith (to herself): What did I do. Oh, god. (Dylan is standing up as well. Burke moves to go up to Meredith) Dylan: Just stay right where you are. Nobody move. Stay exactly where you are. (Meredith takes in a slow deep breath) Meredith (whispers to herself): What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? (She takes a deep breath) What did I do? (Breathes again) What did I do? What did I do? 2x17: (As We Know It) (Part 2)Original Airdate: 2/12/2006Written by: Shonda RhimesDirected by: Peter Horton(SGH) (Hallway) MVO: In hospitals they say you know. You know when you're going to die. (Bailey is standing in her patient room looking despondent) MVO: Some doctors say it's a look patients get in their eyes. (Bailey is doubled over in pain over her bed) MVO: Some say there's a scent. The smell of death. Something. There's just some kind of sixth sense. When the great beyond is heading for you. You feel it coming. (OR where Derek is still operating on Tucker) MVO: Whatever it is. It's creepy. (Addison is by herself in the doctor's lounge sitting on a couch looking very upset) MVO: Because if you know. What do you do about? Forget about the fact you're scared out of your mind. (Linen closet where it appears Alex and Izzie who are wrapped around one another, appearing naked, just finished having sex) MVO: If you knew this was your last day on Earth, how would you want to spend it? (Meredith's face looks panicked from the last episode after putting her hand in Mr. Carlson) (Richard is on the phone in an office behind the nurses' station. George is watching from the nurses' station looking concerned. Izzie and Alex come up to him, fixing up their clothes) Izzie: What's going on? George: Uh something happened in OR 3. Alex: What? George: I don't know. All I know is that Hannah the paramedic, she's missing. (Richard comes out of the office and walks by them) George: Chief, what's happened? Richard: Quiet board. A quiet board is what's happened. (He walks away) (Burke is entering OR 2 where Derek is operating on Tucker. Burke is wearing a flak jacket) Burke: Dr. Shepherd? Derek (a little surprised): Dr. Burke. Burke: How's it going? Derek: He's got a second bleed under the skull base. If I do what the textbooks say. He could lose the power of speech, herniate through the first craniotomy and die. Burke: What's your other option? Derek: Well if I do what I wanna do ... he could lose the power of speech, herniate through the first craniotomy and die. Burke: Well good luck with that. Derek: Thanks. (He turns to Burke) Is there something you want? Burke: You know it was really stupid of you not to evacuate? Derek (nods): You too. Burke: Yeah I know. Derek: We should consider a change in profession. Burke (half chuckles): Yes, we should. Derek: Now can you operate and remove the device from the guy? Burke: After the bomb squad is through assessing him, I'm going to try. Derek (nods): Gotta say I don't wanna be the guy that kills Bailey's husband. Burke: Well I don't wanna be the guy that kills us all. (They exchange a look) Dr. Shepherd. Derek: Dr. Burke. (Burke leaves. Notice he doesn't mention Meredith's new predicament) (OR 3 where Dylan is now slowly strapping a flak jacket up to Meredith. He is wearing one himself. Cristina is already wearing a flak jacket and squeezing the ambu bag) Dylan: You realize how stupid that was. Cristina: It was Mer. Incredibly stupid! Meredith (to Cristina): Ok you know when you don't need to be made fun of? Like when you've got your hand inside a body that's got a bomb in it and a stranger is Velcro-ing a flak jacket to your boobs. Cristina: Ok. Dylan: You've got a sense of irony. Meredith: Only when things are really ironic. (She turns to Cristina) ... I had a feeling. (Cristina shoots Meredith an 'omg I can't believe you'd say that' look. Meredith is referring to her 'might die feeling' she had that morning last episode) Dylan: What's that? Meredith: Nothing. (Burke is walking down the OR hall contemplatively. He stands for a moment before walking determinedly into OR 3. He walks in. Dylan is now standing against the table against the wall watching. Burke walks up to Cristina) Burke (in a low voice): Time for you to go. Cristina: No, I'm staying. Burke: There's nothing more you can do here. We've got it covered. (Cristina doesn't move) Cristina, this is not another clueless surgery. This ammo can go off at any time and kill everyone in this room. Do you get that? You can not be in here. Cristina: Do you think this is about surgery... Burke(interrupts more adamant than ever and whispers into her ear): Cristina I can not do this with you in here! I can not think! (Cristina just looks to Meredith) Meredith: We'll be fine. (Cristina just stares) It's ok. (Cristina nods and Burke takes over for her) Cristina (to Burke): You know in the movies how there's always the heroes and then there's the other guy? You know the guy who sees danger and runs in the opposite direction? Burke: Yes. Cristina: Be the other guy. (Meredith watches them teary-eyed. Cristina leaves the OR. Meredith takes a deep breath to calm herself) Meredith (to Dylan): So you have a plan right? (she nods to herself) You have a way to get me out of this right? (He just stares back at her) (Intern locker room where George, Alex and Izzie are sitting on the floor against the lockers) George: I feel colors are brighter. Does anyone feel like colors are brighter? My head hurts. Alex: It's adrenaline. You have the smell thing, cause I have like this crazy- Izzie (interrupts): Shut up! Alex: Are you ok? George: Of course she's not ok. How could she possibly be okay? You're insensitive. Alex: I'm not insensitive. Izzie: Would you two just shut up! Nobody cares if the blue is bluer or if you have super smelling powers! Meredith could die. Any minute she could just ... die. Actually stop living ... Dead ... Corpse ... (she starts giggling) I'm sorry. Sorry. God, I have really inappropriate reactions to this kind of stress. I'm sorry. (she gathers herself) Hold on. Mmm. George: Ok? Izzie: Yeah. Alex: Should we like, should we like do something? Call Meredith's family? George: We are Meredith's family. (Izzie stars giggling again) Izzie: I'm sorry. (She gets up and leaves chuckling. Alex gets up and follows her) George: We are Meredith's family. (Cristina is entering OR 2 all scrubbed up and flak jacket gone. Derek is still operating) Derek: This area has been evacuated Dr. Yang. Cristina: And somehow you're still here. Derek: I have to be here. You don't. Cristina: Yes I do. Derek (warningly): Dr. Yang. Cristina (adamant): Yes I do. Besides I guess you need a little company. (Derek resigned lets her put on a gown) Cristina: How's he doing? Derek: He's hanging in there. How's the paramedic Hannah doing? Cristina: Hannah? Derek: The girl with the bomb. Cristina: Oh, uh she's hanging in there too. (Floor with the busy people circling around. Addison is talking to Richard at the nurses' station) Addison: Calm down. Richard (upset): Calm down? I have an evacuated O.R. A bomb in a body cavy. A missing paramedic! An intern with her hand on the explosive! Two world class surgeons in harm's way! (George walks up behind them) A man on a table who may bleed out at any moment unless we move the bomb from his chest! And my favorite resident in labor who you're now telling me refuses to push! Really, calm down? You really want to say to me calm down? Addison: Ok don't calm down! George: Dr. Bailey is scared, sir. It's a day to be scared. Addison: She won't let me examine her but from what I can tell her contractions are 40 seconds apart and she's refusing to push. The baby could go into distress and if she doesn't come out of this and soon, then I'm gonna need an O.R to do an emergency C-section. Richard: I can't give you an O.R Addie! I don't have an O.R to give. Can't you convince her to push? Bailey's rational. Addison: She's not Bailey right now! She's a woman in labor whose husband is in surgery next to a bomb. Richard: So is yours. Addison: This is about Bailey. I need an O.R. Richard: I don't know what to tell you. Addison: Look Richard, we have about an hour to change Bailey's mind and then I'm going to need you to get me an O.R. Build me an O.R. Find me a helicopter to fly me to any O.R in the city. Otherwise instead of having a baby, she'll be losing one. (Addison walks off. Richard gives George a look and George scurries off. Richard sits down looking very stressed out. Nurse Debbie comes up to him) Debbie: Here's the blueprints you asked for Chief. (She hands Richard some rolled up blueprints) Richard: Ah, thanks. (Izzie is sitting down by herself in the linen closet looking upset. Alex comes in and sits down next to her. She smiles to herself) Izzie: I laugh at funerals. Alex: I don't go to funerals. (Izzie smiles. She looks at him and then starts kissing him) Alex: Izzie. Iz. (He looks at her and Izzie pulls away) Izzie (upset): I was jealous. I was jealous of Meredith and the surgery and I ... I was ... jealous and now ... I was jealous, Alex. (Alex leans and strokes Izzie's face. He leans in and kisses her) (OR 3 where Meredith is still there. Burke is sitting on a chair watching. Someone is squeezing the ambu bag but they're not shown clearly) Meredith: Is this the strangest thing that's ever happened in your OR? Burke (nods): I'd have to say that it is. Meredith: Good, cause I'm very competitive. Burke: All the best surgeons are. (Bailey's room where she's sitting on a chair in pain. George is standing in front of her) George: Dr. Montgomery-Shepherd just talked to the Chief. They're really worried about you. She's on the phone with Mercy West right now to see if they have any OR's available. Bailey: I need someone to drive me home. George: They're talking about doing an emergency C-section. Bailey: They can talk all they want. I'm not going to Mercy West. This baby is not coming out. I need a ride! I can't focus enough to drive myself. (her voice cracks) And Tucker ... I need a ride. George: You could lose it! You know this! Bailey: I told you already. I'm not having this baby until tomorrow. George: This baby could die before it's even born! Bailey (yells): Can you give me a ride home? George: Dr. Bailey... Bailey: Then get out! (George leaves the room) (Richard is looking over the blueprints of the OR floor in a conference room by himself. He takes of his glasses looking very concerned. Mindy comes to the door) Mindy: Is, is there any news? Richard: What? (he realizes it's Mindy) Oh I'm sorry Mrs. Carlson. Mindy: My husband. I was wondering if there was any news because you look so worried. And I heard this doctor saying that even though that girl's got her finger on the tear in his heart, that my husband is losing blood. Every second he's losing blood. Which means he could die? He could die? I ask because I know you'll me the truth because you look so worried. Richard: Mrs. Carlson ... (he's about to lie to her but changes his mind) Yes it's possible he could bleed out and die if we don't operate soon. Mindy (nods): Okay. Okay. Thank you for telling me the truth. (she starts to cry) I'll just ah, I'll just go wait over here. (She walks away) Richard (yells out): Look will someone give me an update! And where's the head of the bomb squad? (Richard puts his glasses back on and turns back to the blueprints. Dylan comes up to the door) Dylan: I'm right here and we're good to go. My team's in place. Dr. Burke is ready. Patient's in stable condition. We can have the bomb out in under 10 minutes if I'm not interrupted again. Richard: In the OR we put our patients under general anesthesia. Dylan: Yeah? Richard: That involves a steady flow of oxygen. (Dylan looks concerned suddenly and walks into the room) Dylan: Well can't you turn off the oxygen in my OR? Richard: I can and I have. But this is your OR (he points to the blueprints) This is the OR's floor main oxygen line. (It seems to be directly under the OR they're in) (Linen closet where Alex and Izzie are putting their clothes back on) Alex: It's gonna be okay. Izzie: You don't know that. Alex: It's just what you say. Izzie (half smiles): I know. (She moves to leave) Alex: Where you going? Izzie: I cant just.. I, I gotta do something to help. ... Thank you. For saying that it's going to be okay. Even if it's just what you say. (She leaves the linen closet) (Burke and Dylan are whispering to each other at the doorway of OR 3. Meredith watches) Meredith: Stop it. (They stop whispering) I'm not a patient. Dylan: What? Meredith: The two of you are looking at me the way we look at patients. Like I'm going to freak out at any minute. I'm not gonna freak out so whatever it is just tell me straight out. (Burke moves away from the door to stand directly in front of Meredith) Burke: The main oxygen line runs directly under this room. Meredith: Ok. (Burke just stares at her) Not ok. ... Well? I need one of you to tell me what this means exactly. Because I think I know what it means. But I tend to be glass half-empty these days so I won't trust what I think it means. Because what I think it means if the bomb were to explode over the oxygen line the whole hospital could blow up. ... And that's just crazy right? (Richard is standing out in front of the nurses' station looking even more stressed out. He's talking to a nurse) Richard: I need an answer on when they're gonna start moving. (The nurse nods and leaves. Izzie and Alex come up to him) Izzie: Chief. Richard: Look I'm busy! Izzie: I know. I know you're really very busy but if there's something, anything that we could do to help it would really would be very helpful. (Richard doesn't look so good and is breathing heavily) We need an assignment, sir. (Richard looks in really bad shape) Richard: Look, I need, I need... Izzie (concerned): Chief? (Richard is breathing really erratically) Izzie: He's pale and diaphoretic. Alex: Check his pulse. We need some help over here! Izzie: Come on let's move people! I'll get a wheelchair. (Richard backs against the wall and looks really panicked) Alex: I think he's having a heart attack. (OR 3. Dylan walks into the OR as well) Dylan: Meredith, all it means ... is that we have to move. Burke: Move? Dylan: That's right. We have to move. (he whispers to Burke) Now because I don't want to spend another second in this room. Meredith: Wait. I can't wiggle my fingers because we can't shift the ammo. And now you want to roll out the entire gurney? Dylan: Well that's our safest, safest option. (Dylan nods to Burke) Burke: So we move. Not a problem. We can do this. You handling this Grey? Meredith: I'm handling this. (Richard is lying down on a hospital bed in a patient room. Izzie and Alex are standing in there and there is another doctor also there checking Richard) Richard: So how's it look? Doctor: Well it's hard to say for sure. EKG is normal. (The doctor leaves the room) Alex: That's good news. Richard: That's it I'm getting up. Izzie: Sir! You should really wait until we get the blood work back. Richard: I'm not listening Stevens. (All of sudden Adele stands up and has been apparently sitting in the room the whole time) Adele: You can talk to me Dr. Stevens. Izzie (unsure): Um ... um ... okay. Your husband should really wait until we get the blood work back for confirmation. Richard: Okay! Out! Both of you! (Alex and Izzie nod and leave quickly. He moves to get up) Richard: I'm getting up. (Adele moves to stop him) Adele: You're going to have to body check me to do so. Richard: Adele, there is a bomb! Adele: I heard. (She tucks Richard in bed and looks over him comfortingly. Richard just looks resigned and kinda caged in) (Addison is sitting on an empty gurney in the middle of an empty hallway looking very upset. George walks up to her) George: Dr. Montgomery-Shepherd. What are we gonna do? I mean about Dr. Bailey. Can, can we drug her? Addison: Against her will? George: No. Well ... yes. (Addison looks annoyed) Can't we force her to push? If ah declare her temporarily insane. Addison (lets out a noise of frustration): Ah. You want me to declare Miranda Bailey, Miranda Bailey incompetent? Do you think that will help? Do you think that will make her more inclined, more comfortable giving birth? George: I don't know that's why... Addison (interrupts): Do you think I'm not doing everything I can to help her? I mean do you think I'm just out here because I don't know feel a little lazy, just need a little me time? George: I'm just asking. Addison (yells): Stop asking! Because no matter what you ask the answer is I don't know. I'm doing everything thing I can! Everything I can! Miranda Bailey's husband is in mortal danger. Actual mortal danger! And there's not a lot I can say to comfort her right now because there's not a lot that anybody can say to comfort me! I'm doing my best! Dr. Bailey is doing her best! And I need you to do your best! And I need it to better than standing here asking me the world's most stupidest question! I don't know O'Malley! (George nods slightly looking a little upset and he leaves) (George is sitting down on the stairs of a stairwell. He slams the door shut with his foot obviously frustrated. He hears a crying noise coming from a few flights of stairs below. He stands up and looks down) George: Hey. (The person looks up and it's Hannah the paramedic) You okay? (Hannah just looks down and George goes down the stairs to meet her) George (takes her hand): Wait, are you bleeding? Hannah: I, I think I fell ah... I was running um- and I fell. It's okay. George: Are you Hannah? Hannah (nods slightly, quiet): Yeah. (OR 2 where Derek is still operating on Tucker. Cristina turns around and is distracted by the activity happening outside) Derek: Micro-scissors Dr. Yang. (he notices her staring) What is so interesting out there? Cristina: I uh...I'll... (She rips of her gown and heads out the door) (OR hallway where Dylan, 2 other bomb squad guys and Meredith are moving the gurney with James very, very slowly) Dylan: You're doing great. Meredith: Let's go over it again. Dylan: The device is shaped like a rocket. About 8 inches long. We're going to have everything ready. Dr. Burke's team is going to be in place. My team is going to be in place. And I'm going to ask you to take the hand that you have in Mr. Carlson, wrap it around the device... Meredith (finishes for him): And pull it out. Dylan: Level. Pull it out while keeping it level. (The camera pans down to the floor where the floor is slightly elevated by a silver bar that stretches across it. They don't seem to realize that they're approaching this bar) Meredith: You know I don't like you very much. Dylan: I don't like you either. (Cristina comes up in the hallway) Cristina: What are you doing? Dylan (angry): Stop. Stop right where you are. (They stop moving) Cristina: What are you doing? Dylan: I thought Dr. Burke told you to leave. Meredith: We're moving to an O.R further away from the oxygen line. You know in case we blow up. Dylan: I distinctly remember him telling you to leave! Cristina: Where is he? Meredith: He's prepping the O.R. Cristina: Then he'll never know will he. Dylan: You stay over there. You stay over there! (He directs Cristina to stand a few feet away from them in an adjacent hallway but she can still see everything and they can see her) Dylan (to Meredith): You ready? (Meredith nods and they start wheeling past Cristina slowly) Meredith (to Cristina): Tell me something. Cristina: What? Meredith: Cristina, I have my hand on a bomb. I'm freaking out and most importantly I really have to pee. Tell me anything. Cristina: He told me he loved me. Last night. He thought I was sleeping but I heard him say it. Meredith: Burke loves you. Cristina: Yeah. (Dylan looks at Cristina and she notices) Mind your own business. Meredith: Burke loves you. Cristina: Okay everybody has problems. Meredith: Well are you going to say it back or- Cristina (interrupts): Of course not. He didn't say it to me. He said to the sleeping me. Reciprocity is not required. Besides he might blow up. Meredith: Excellent point. (All of sudden they hit the metal bar across the floor and the whole gurney bangs to a stop) Dylan: All right everybody. Let's keep placing one foot in front of the other. Nice and slow. Alright Meredith we're almost there. Meredith (closes her eyes): Okay. Dylan: We're almost there. Nice and Easy. You ready? Meredith (nods): Yeah. Dylan: Alright let's go. Nice and slow. (They move the gurney slowly over the bar on the floor and continue on) Cristina: You had to say you were going to die today. Meredith (shrugs): I told you. (The Pit where George is sitting with Hannah cleaning up her hand) George: It's not to deep but, you are going to need a couple of stitches. (Hannah nods) Hannah, uh is there someone you'd like me to call? Family or maybe friends? Hannah (shakes her head): No. ... That doctor ... George: Dr. Grey. Meredith. Hannah (nods): Is she? George: She's still there. Hannah: So she's still alive. George: She's alive. Hannah (sighs in relief): She's still alive. (She looks upset) George: Dr. Milton shouldn't have left you. He's a coward. Hannah: I'm a coward. George: No. Hannah: I ran away. ... You think you're going to be different. You think you're gonna be the kind of person who stays and does something. (she shakes her head) You know a good man in a storm. I'm a paramedic. I'm supposed to stay and do something. I'm not supposed to run away. I'm not supposed to hide under the stairs cause I left two people to die. I'm supposed to stay and do something. I ran away. (Alex is entering through a door into another floor of the hospital. He stops at a nurses' station where Izzie is standing) Alex: Well blood work's back. The Chief had an anxiety attack. (he sighs) Who's gonna tell him? Izzie: Um, I gave you sex in a linen closet. You tell him. Alex (nods): Fair enough. (He walks off and Izzie smiles) (Bailey's room where Bailey is lying in bed refusing to move. Addison is in there with her trying to get to her move. George is standing at the door watching) Addison: Okay, Dr. Bailey let's go. (She tries to get Bailey to sit up but Bailey just pushes away crying) Addison: Dr. Bailey I need you to turn on your back. I need you to push. Bailey: Leave me alone. Addison: Miranda. (to a nurse that is also in there) I can't let her go any longer. I'm gonna go tell Richard that he has to get us an O.R, okay? (Addison moves to leave through the door as George moves forward) George: Dr. Bailey, I'm surprised at you. I really thought...this is not how I thought you would do this. (Addison stops at the door) Addison: Dr. O'Malley I don't think that... George (ignores Addison and moves to Bailey's bedside): I truly... I expected more. Addison: George. (George takes a damp cloth and wipes it against Bailey's arm. Addison moves back into the room and watches. George leans down to talk to her) George: You're Dr. Bailey. (she cries a little) You don't hide from a fight. You don't give up. You strive for greatness. You Dr. Bailey, you are a doer. And ... I know your husband is not here and I know that there are a lot of things going on here that we have no control over. But this ... (he takes his hand and lifts up her chin for her to look at him directly) this ... we can do. Ok? (Bailey half nods, crying) Ok. (Addison starts moving to prepare Bailey while George helps Bailey sit up. He gets on the bed and sits behind her to support her) George: Let's have this baby. (OR where the gurney carrying James is now in place. Burke is there with his team as is Dylan) Burke (to Dylan): We're ready when you are. Dylan: We're good. Meredith? Meredith (looks scared): Yeah. Burke: I'm going to extend the wound. When I cut the bleeding is going to intensify. If we're going to save Mr. Carlson you have to pull the ammo out immediately. Dylan: But remember remove it while keeping it level as possible. (Meredith nods) Nice and easy. No quick movements. Level. Meredith: Right level. Burke (to Meredith): You ready? Meredith (teary-eyed): I uh ... ... Do I have a choice? Burke: You have to be ready. Meredith: Yeah I guess. Burke: Scalpel. Meredith: I guess I'm ready. (Burke starts cutting into Mr. Carlson) (Cristina enters OR 2 with Derek and walks up to them) Derek: How's it going out there Yang? Cristina: Everything's fine. Derek: How's the girl with bomb? Cristina: How's he doing? Derek: He's almost there. (to a scrubs nurse) Suction. Irrigate. That's great. (to Cristina) You didn't answer my question Yang. Cristina: Sir? Derek: How is the girl with the bomb? (Cristina looks conflicted for a second) Cristina: It's Meredith. (Derek turns to her startled) The girl with bomb is Meredith. (All of a sudden the heart monitor connected to Tucker flat lines) (O.R with Meredith, Burke and the O.R team) Burke: I'm good. She can go. Dylan: All right now Meredith. Wrap your hand around the nose cone. (Meredith looks like she isn't listening but just staring off to the side tear-eyed) Meredith. Burke: Grey. (she kinda snaps out of it a little but stares off again) Grey. (O.R 2 with Derek and Tucker. The heart monitor is still flat lined) Derek: Damn it we're losing him. (to a scrubs nurse) Push one of epi! Cristina: Thready pulse. Anesthesiologist: Epi in! Derek: Nothing. Okay get me a wet lap. Nurse: Here. Derek: We're gonna roll him on 3. Okay let me know when everyone's ready. Let's go. We gotta go. Come on! Let's go! (O.R with Meredith) Dylan: Meredith. (Meredith pulls down her scrubs mask) Meredith: George and Izzie shouldn't have to move out of the house. Dylan: No. You hear me. Meredith (to Dylan): You should make sure. Make sure that they, that they get to stay in the house. (Bailey giving birth in her patient room) Bailey: Augh! George: Push! Addison: A little bit more. I can see the top of the head. Bailey: I need stop. Need stop. (She falls back against George) George: Okay that was good. (He silently pulls his hand back and makes a pained expression as if she's broken his fingers) George: That was very good. That was- Okay. (He helps Bailey sit up right again) Are you ready? Addison: Ready? Bailey (nods): Okay. George: Push. Bailey: (she pushes) Oh god! (O.R with Tucker and Derek) Derek: Come on, come on, come on, come on. (Cristina is performing manual CPR) Cristina: Wide complex bradycardia. Derek: Push one more of epi and one more of atropine. Come on, come on. You can not do this Tucker! You can not quit on me! Come on, keep going. You can't quit! (O.R with Meredith. She's looking off to the side again and teary-eyed. A flash light is shone in her face) Burke: Grey. His pressure's dropping. Grey. (He shines the light again on her face) Meredith: I can't! No. I can't. This is crazy. Burke, you gonna go? You go. (to Burke and Dylan) Both of you should go. Burke: Nobody's dying today, Grey. Dylan: Meredith I want you to look at me. (She is staring at Burke) Look at me. (She turns her gaze to Dylan who is standing directly in front of her) I know this is bad. And I know that I'm this ass who's been yelling at you all day. So you pretend that I'm not. You pretend that I'm someone you like. Whatever you need. But you need to listen to me. (Meredith looks down and then looks back up again. The whole screen flashes white and there is no sound aside from Meredith's breathing and the heart monitor. She sees Derek standing in front of her) Meredith: I'm scared. Derek: I know. You can do this. It'll be over in a second. ... You can do this Meredith. Meredith: Ok. Derek: Ok. (The camera pans out and shows the two of them just standing in front of each other an empty O.R, identical to the opening scene of the previous episode. Gradually the real surroundings fade in and 'Derek' turns back into Dylan. Meredith starts to pull out her hand) Dylan (whispers): Gently. (Meredith looking very scared and teary-eyed begins to pull out the tip of the bomb) (OR with Tucker. Cristina is desperately performing CPR but the monitor is still flat-lined) (Bailey still in labor) Bailey (she's pushing): Augh! Addison: Good. Stop. Bailey: Stop? Addison: Stop. (George looks up at the mirror hanging against the wall so that Bailey and him can see the actual birth) George: Oh! Dr. Bailey I can see the top of his head! (Addison grins) He's got a lot of hair. Oh he's cute. Bailey: O'Malley? George: Yeah? Bailey: Stop looking at my va-jay-jay! (George looks away instantly) George: Yes ma'am. (OR where Tucker is still flat lined. Cristina has now stopped CPR but is squeezing an ambu bag. Derek looks panicked and rips off all his equipment off himself. He pushes people out of the way and starts CPR himself) (Bailey doing another push and obviously squeezing the life out of George's hand as shown by the expression on his face) (Tucker's OR where he is still flat lined. Everyone looks despondent. Derek backs away from Tucker slowly. All of sudden he thumps a fist hard against Tucker's chest. The monitor is still flat-lined) (Meredith slowly pulling out more of the bomb) (Tucker's OR. All of a sudden the heart monitor starts beeping again. His heart rate is rising up. Cristina nods at Derek) (Meredith crying a little as she hands the bomb very careful to Dylan who is holding his hands out stretched to receive it. She removes her hand) Dylan (whispers): You did good. (He starts moving slowly away from the operating table. Meredith also backs away as Burke starts operating on Mr. Carlson. Dylan heads out the door. Meredith slowly follows him. She walks out the door and stands in front of it watching. Dylan is a few steps away ready to pass it off to another Bomb Squad member who is standing ready to receive the bomb. All of a sudden there is a large explosion. Dylan is instantly blown up. The force is so strong that it flings Meredith backwards onto her back. It blows up various things in the hallway including nearby windows of adjacent OR's and scrub rooms. Burke's nor Derek's OR are affected. Meredith is caked in debris, blood and flesh. The other bomb squad member appears to have been blown up as well. The lights are all blown and everything seems dark and dank. Some pieces of paper are light in small fires. Meredith appears to be unconscious lying on the floor) (OR floor where Richard is on the phone at the nurses' station. Adele is there with him as is Alex) Richard: What the hell is happening down there? Who's coming up? Ok. (He hangs up the phone) Richard (to Adele): Come on sweetheart. (Adele nods and he walks to in front of an elevator as she follows) Richard (calls out): Alright people! They're coming up. (Hannah who was sitting in the waiting room lifts up her head. Alex moves to go tell Mrs. Carlson. A whole group of interns, doctors and nurses gather around Richard waiting for whoever is coming up the elevator. The elevator doors open revealing Burke and Derek standing in there. They walk up to the group) Burke: Derek. Derek: Preston. (They reach the group) Mindy: Dr. Burke. Is my husband um ... alive? Burke: Yes. Mindy: Is he ... gonna stay alive? (Burke notices Hannah standing at the nurses' station a little away from the large group. He points to Hannah) Burke: Thanks to that young lady over there he is. Mindy (crying happily shakes Burke's hand): Thank you. (She walks up to Hannah crying) Mindy: Thank you. Thank you. (She wraps Hannah in a tight hug. Richard nods at Burke and Burke walks off) (The group seems to have dispersed and Derek is walking around looking anxiously as if searching for someone. Richard and Adele notice and Richard walks up to him) Derek (anxious): Where is she? Richard: You had to be a cowboy. (Derek just looks around) Derek: Where, where is she? Richard: She's right here. Addison: Derek. You're okay. (Addison comes up walking fast and hugs Derek relieved) Oh, you're okay. (Derek still hugging Addison gives Richard a look. Adele notices) Adele (to Richard): That is not the 'she' he was asking for. (Female Showers of the locker room. George walks up and peers his head through the door. He sees Izzie and Cristina helping a shell shocked Meredith still in her scrubs and gown into the shower. She's still caked in blood and debris. They remove her scrubs cap and gown but she still has on her pants and shirt. George leaves. Cristina and Izzie help guide her under the shower head and begin washing her hair) (Burke and Cristina's apartment) (Cristina lies down on the bed.) Cristina: Burke, you awake? Burke? ... (Burke is lying across from her softly snoring) I love you too. (Burke continues to sleep and Cristina rolls over and closes her eyes) (Post-op room where Tucker is awake and sitting up right. Bailey is standing there holding their baby boy who is so cute) Bailey: This is our son. (She hands the boy over to Tucker) William George Bailey-Jones. Tucker (smiling): Hello. Hello my little man. Hello.(to Bailey) He's beautiful. (Bailey nods and leans in close and buries her head against Tucker) (Meredith's house) (Meredith is lying in bed looking out the window where it is pouring rain. A knock sounds on her door and Izzie comes in) Izzie: There's someone at the door for you. (Derek is standing in front of the door waiting for Meredith. He sighs. Meredith comes up and stands right in front of him.) Meredith (softly): Hey. (He stares at her looking very relieved) Derek: Hey. You almost died today. Meredith: Yeah. I almost died today. (He looks at her for a bit and then opens the front door to leave) Meredith: I can't ... (he steps back into the house) I can't remember our last kiss. All I could think about was I'm going to die today and I can't remember our last kiss. Which is pathetic, but the last time we were together and happy I ... want to be able to remember that. And I can't Derek. (he nods) I can't remember. Derek: I'm glad you didn't die today. (He goes to leave out the door. Meredith turns around to back upstairs. He stops her when he speaks standing at the doorway) Derek: It was a Thursday morning. You were wearing that ratty little Dartmouth t-shirt you look so good in. The one with the hole in the back of the neck. (he chuckles a little) You'd just washed your hair and you smelled like some kind of flower. I was running late for surgery. You said you were gonna see me later and you leaned to me, you put your hand on my chest and you kissed me. Soft. It was quick, kinda like a habit. You know, like we'd do it every day for the rest of our lives. You went back to reading the newspaper and I went to work. That was the last time we kissed. (He moves to leave again almost closing the door when Meredith speaks) Meredith: Lavender. (he steps back in) My hair smelled like lavender from my conditioner. Derek (nods): Lavender. (smiles) Huh. (He leaves and Meredith starts to head back up to her room) MVO: If this was your last day on Earth, how would you wanna spend it?2x18: YesterdayOriginal Airdate: 2/19/2006Written by: Krista VernoffDirected by: Rob Corn(Burke and Cristina's apartment) (Cristina is listening to music extremely loudly on her Ipod and dancing by herself in the apartment. She's also brushing her teeth and getting dressed at the same time) MVO: After careful consideration and many sleepless nights, here's what I've decided. (Cristina puts on her jacket) MVO: There's no such thing as a grown up. (Burke enters the apartment after his morning run all sweaty and stares at Cristina. Cristina instantly stops. Cristina starts dancing quite crazily up towards Burke) MVO: We move on, we move out, we move away from our families and form our own. Burke: Oh, no. I'm all wet.(Burke looks amused and Cristina laughs. She tries to get him to dance but he refuses. She moves up to him and removes his jacket trying to get him to dance. Burke tries to walk by her but she stops him and dances in front of him. He starts dancing with her and Cristina lets out a laugh. A mobile rings. Burke moves to answer it still dancing) Burke: Hello? No, Dr. Burke. (Cristina gargles and spits out her paste into the kitchen sink) Yes. (She wipes her mouth on the dishtowel...Burke looks confused on the phone) Yes I'll let her know. (Cristina continues on dancing. Burke dances in front of her half-heartedly) Burke: That was your landlord. (Cristina removes her earplugs from her Ipod and stops dancing) He wants you to know that there's a minor flood in your apartment. Your other apartment! (Cristina has an uh-oh look on her face and Burke looks less than impressed and walks off. Cristina looks after him with a very guilty expression) MVO: But the basic insecurities, the basic fears and all those old wounds just grow up with us. (Nursing home) (Ellis is sitting down on a chair. Meredith is helping herself to some coffee) Ellis: I'm exhausted. Meredith: Me, too. MVO: And just when we think that life and circumstance have forced us to truly, once and for all become an adult ... (Meredith places the coffee and some food on the table in front of Ellis) Ellis: I was going at it all night in the on-call room. What's your excuse? (Meredith stands up and turns around to face Ellis shocked) MVO: ... your mother says something like that. Meredith: Mom. Ellis: I tell ya that man makes me purr like a kitten. Meredith: Mom! Ellis: When he isn't making me growl like a tiger. Meredith: Stop! (Ellis chuckles to herself) Ellis: And my husband wonders why I'm not interested in him anymore. MVO: Or worse. Something like that. Ellis: If he had any balls at all he would leave on his own. (she shakes his head) No. He plays stupid. He's waiting for me to kick him out. I come home with a hickey on my shoulder. (she points to her shoulder) A hickey! For god's sake like I'm a sex-crazed teenager. (she chuckles) Which let's face it these days I am. And what does Thatcher do? Pretends he doesn't see it. (Meredith just looks stunned at the information) MVO: We get bigger, we get taller, we get older. But for the most part, we're still a bunch of kids. (Locker room) (The interns are getting ready for another day. George is standing from afar watching Meredith sitting down in front of the locker just staring at them) MVO: Running around the playground trying desperately to fit in. (George moves to walk up to Meredith. Cristina enters the locker room and pushes past George) Cristina: You know, he's acting like I committed a crime. Like my apartment is full of stolen goods. (George walks off as Cristina dumps her stuff in her locker ranting to Meredith) Cristina: He's acting like I kept my apartment to hide stolen goods so I can do illegal transactions for money. Meredith: Are you sure he's just not acting like you lied about moving in? Cristina (makes a face): Ok, what's wrong with you? Meredith: My mommy's a filthy whore. (Cristina shrugs) (Another part of the locker room where Izzie is getting ready. Alex is standing in front of her giving her a very suggestive look also getting ready) Izzie: You have dirty in your eyes. Alex (grins): You have dirty in your eyes. Izzie (smiles): I'm not doing dirty with you any more. It was a one time lapse in judgment. Alex: Oh it was a 4 time lapse in judgment. Izzie: Yeah well it's not gonna happen again. Alex (disbelieving): Oh ok. Izzie (smiles): I'm serious! We're friends and it didn't work when we tried to be more than that so ... as fun as it was, it's not gonna happen again. (She looks at him like she wants to have sex right there now) Alex: Stop looking at me. Izzie: I'm not looking at you. I'm rounding. Alex: I'm rounding too. Izzie (smiles): Fine. Alex (smiles): Fine. (Patient room. A middle aged man named Chuck Eaton is lying in the hospital bed. Burke is in there standing with Bailey's interns minus Bailey of course) Meredith: Chuck Eaton. 54. Has stage 3B non small cell lung cancer with possible invasion of the pleura. And a history of COPD. He's had extensive chemo-radiotherapy (Cristina shoots Burke a look which he returns) with minimal regression of the tumor. He's been admitted for radical and block re-section. Chuck: I was a smoker. The ah oncologist, he explained that I have a 25% chance of surviving the surgery. Burke: Well unfortunately that's about right. If you should elect not to proceed we can make you more comfortable. Chuck: With all do respect ah- there's no way you can make a man dying a slow death comfortable. I'll roll the dice. (Izzie and George are walking down a hallway) George: How would you say I looked today? Would you say I looked nice? Izzie: Well I say you could use a little more lip gloss but yes you're very pretty. George (smiles): Oh you're mean. Izzie: I'm just kidding. You look fine. George: Seriously, how's my breath? (He breathes onto her face) Izzie: George. Would you just talk to her? George: Who, what... Izzie (interrupts): Oh! (Further up ahead she sees Cristina, Meredith and Alex standing with Bailey holding her baby boy Will. She walks up to them) Izzie (in a baby voice): Good morning Dr. Bailey. Hi, big boy! Bailey: Are the OR's up and running? Cristina: Ah yeah fully functional. Except there's some smoke damage to the corridor. Bailey (to Meredith): How bout you? You fully functional? Meredith (nods): I'm fine. How's your husband? Bailey: Take him home tomorrow. (Will makes a cute noise and Bailey does a little baby voice as well) Yes we are. Yeah. Yeah. Izzie (joins in): Oh, you're cute. I know you are. Bailey: Okay this is not a tea party. Go work. Save some lives. (They disperse quickly) Now! (Bailey chuckles and walks down the other way) (Patient room where a teenaged boy named Jake Burton is lying in the hospital bed. Jake has very prominent bony structures on his face making it appear a lot larger than normal. Derek, Cristina, Alex, Izzie, George, Meredith and both Jake's parents are there) Cristina: Jake Burton. 15. Has advanced craniodiaphyseal dysplasia. Was admitted last night after complaining of headaches. Mrs. Burton: He's not a complainer. Mr. Burton: He's been having some nausea as well. Derek: Okay may I? (The parents move aside and Derek moves close to the bedside) Jake, can I get you to sit up please? Jake: Sure. Derek: Right okay. I want you to look right here for me. (He holds up a finger in front of Cristina. Jake looks directly at Cristina) Thank you. (Cristina looks a little uncomfortable and shifts her gaze as Derek checks Jake's eyes) Jake: You know you could pretend I'm a lion. It helps. Cristina: Sorry? Jake: You could pretend I'm a lion and then instead of a really messed up kid you get a talking circus animal which is way easier to look at. (Derek chuckles) Derek: Dr. Yang what's our immediate concern? Cristina: Ah that the bony tumors are growing inward and encroaching on his brain. (Derek nods) (Meredith is typing at a computer standing up at a nurses' station. A very, very hot young man wearing a leather jacket comes up to her and peers over her shoulder. His name is Mark) Mark: Invasive non-cell. With a history of COPD. (he shrugs) That guy's pretty much a goner, huh? Meredith: Sensitivity. I like that in a stranger. Are you new here? Mark: Visiting. Confounded by all the rain and it's only my first day in town. Meredith: You get used to it. (Meredith moves away from the comp and a few feet away. Mark follows her) Mark: Makes me wanna stay in bed all day. Meredith: We just met and already you're talking about bed. Not very subtle. (Derek stands up noticing him through the window of the adjacent office behind the nurses' station. Addison comes up the hallway and looks shocked) Mark: Subtle has never been my strong suit. So ... do you ever go out with co-workers? Meredith (smiles): I um...make it a rule not to. Mark: Then I am so glad that I don't work here. Meredith: Are you hitting on me? In a hospital? Mark: Would that be wrong? Meredith: Meredith. (George is also looking through the window annoyed. They shake hands. All of sudden Derek punches Mark really hard across the face. Mark falls to the ground) Derek (shakes his hand): Aah! Meredith (stunned): What the hell was that?! Derek: That was Mark. (Conference room where Derek is now sitting down. Addison puts an ice pack on it and Derek removes it. Richard is pacing around angrily. Addison sits a few chairs away from Derek) Richard (angry): Punching out people on my surgical floor! My head of Neurosurgery punching out people on my surgical floor! A ddison: Put the ice back on your hand. Derek: My hand is fine! Richard (angry): Put the damn ice on your 2 million dollar a year hand! (Derek places the ice-pack back on his hand) Now, would someone tell me what the hell happened? (Derek gives Addison a look) Addison: That was Mark. Richard (more calm): Who's Mark? Addison: He and Derek used to work together back in New York. ... ... And umm... They ah... We were all close friends. ... Until, Derek found us in bed together. (Richard is silent for a moment) Richard (to Derek): You put your weight behind it? Derek: Yes sir. Richard (nods): Well, alright then. (He leaves. Addison places her head in her hands) Derek: What the hell is he doing here? Addison: I have no idea. (Trauma room where Meredith is cleaning up the large cut on Mark's face) Mark: Derek and I always did have the same taste in women. Meredith: Excuse me? Mark: You're Derek's lusty intern, right? Heard about you all the way back in New York. You're famous. Meredith: Hmm, well I heard about you all the way here in Seattle so I guess we have a lot in common. Mark: We're the dirty mistresses. Meredith: I suppose we are. Mark: My 400 dollar an hour shrink says that because behind this rugged and confident exterior, I'm self destructive and self loathing to an almost pathological degree. Meredith: Hey, we do have a lot in common. Mark: You know it's funny, Derek...(he turns to face Meredith but she grasps his face so he's staring straight so she clean the wound on his cheek) Derek walks in on me naked with his wife actually in the throes. And he just turns around and walks away, but he sees me so much as talking to you and I'm on the ground bleeding. Interesting, don't you think? (Meredith doesn't respond. She places a towel on his shoulder and moves to start suturing his face) Mark: What do you think you're doing? Meredith: You need stitches. Mark: I know. (he holds up a mirror) Hold the mirror. (Meredith gives him a look and hands him the surgical tools. She takes the mirror from him and stands in front of him so he can stitch it up himself) (Out the window you can see Cristina, Alex, Izzie and George all watching from the nurses' station) George: Why is he suturing his own face? Cristina: To turn me on. Alex: Cause he's Mark Sloan. He's like the go-to plastic surgeon on the East Coast. George (shocked): That's the guy Addison was sleeping with? Izzie: You can't really blame her, can you? Cristina: No, not really. George: Yes you can. (Meredith comes up to them) Meredith: McSexy wants an x-ray to check for fractures and I think it's a bad idea if I take him. George: Why? Why? Alex: I'm on it. (Alex leaves) George: Why is it a bad idea? Cristina: McSexy? Meredith: No. Izzie: McYummy. Meredith and Cristina: No. Meredith: McSteamy. Cristina: Oh there it is. Izzie: Yep. (she chuckles) (They all look at Mark through the trauma room window) George: Uh, just ah choking back some McVomit. (He walks off) (George and Izzie are putting on some yellow gowns getting ready to enter the Pit) George: I saw her first! The night she met Shepherd, I had her ear. We talked. And I can't even remember what I said. Izzie: You know how when you haven't had sex for a while and you sort of forget how good it is and you don't really need it as much? George: Yeah, that doesn't happen to guys. (George moves behind to tie up the back of Izzie's gown) Izzie: It's like a beast. A beast that was asleep for a long, long time and now, the beast is wide awake! And wants to be fed. And the food that Alex gave it was good food George. (George yanks back Izzie's yellow gown) George: Something needs to be done about your taste. Izzie: Oh! You're just jealous because your beast is still asleep. George: Heh! My beast isn't asleep. My beast never sleeps! (They rush outside to meet the incoming ambulance) (Meredith is peering into Mr. Eaton's room. She enters and sees that Chuck is assembling a video camera) Meredith: Mr. Eaton. Do you need a hand with that? Chuck: Ah if you could set up the tripod that would be very helpful. Meredith: Are you...what are you doing? Chuck: I'm dying dear. 1 in 4. I ah, I've never done well with odds like that. Some people are lucky. I just never have been. The camera is for posterity. Saying good-bye. Meredith: Do you want me to hold the camera for you? Chuck (teary-eyed): You're very kind. Thank you. (He sits more upright and Meredith turns on the video camera. Chuck wipes his eyes and removes his oxygen tube) Meredith: Okay, we're recording. Chuck: This, this ah this is a message for Susie Zelman. My college sweetheart and the love of my life. (Meredith smiles at this) Susie, I loved you with my whole heart. And I never would have stopped loving you if you hadn't been a vilest (Meredith looks shocked) whore to have ever walked the planet Earth. You deserve that- that drunken imbecile that you slept with and then married. And then at the reunion I met your ugly children, I, I knew that you had done me a real favor! I am so deeply happy that I never have to see your face again. ... Love, Chuck. (Meredith doesn't look too impressed. He puts his oxygen tube back in) Could you please put in a fresh tape dear? (Alex and Mark are looking at x-rays of Mark's face in the x-ray viewing room) Alex: I read about that jaw reconstruction you did using a micro-muscular free transfer from the foot. Mark: You interested in plastics? Alex (nods): Absolutely. Mark: Might want to consider a transfer to New York or Los Angeles. You're not gonna see any heat up here. Alex: Actually, have you ever seen an advanced case of craniodiaphyseal dysplasia? Mark: Lionitis? (Alex nods) (Incoming trauma case. A young woman named Pamela is being wheeled on a gurney by the paramedic named Jill down a hospital hallway in the Pit. George and Izzie and other E.R. doctors are wheeling the gurney as well) Jill: Restrained driver in a minor MVC. Vitals are stable but witnesses saw seizure activity behind the wheel. (They move her onto a hospital bed in the Pit) Pamela: I really don't think I even need to be here. Izzie: You should really let us determine that ma'am. Jill: Witnesses say she was screaming, shuddering and, and cracking her jaw. George: Do you have a seizure disorder that you're aware of? Izzie: Epilepsy? Pamela: Not epilepsy. I don't have epilepsy- Oh no. Oh god it's happening again. Oh no! Oh! Oh! Oh, Oh Ah! (She has a very vocal orgasm) Ah! (She looks upset that just happened) Jill: Was that a ...? George: Did she just have a...? Izzie (breathes out): Orgasm. (Izzie, George and Addison are standing at doorway leading into the Pit) Addison: Spontaneous orgasms? Are you sure? Izzie (smiles): Oh yes. George: Kinda hard to miss. Addison: Okay. (They walk up to Pamela) Miss Calva, I'm Doctor Montgomery-Shepherd. Pamela: It's Pamela. Since we're gonna be talking about you know. May as well get familiar. Addison: Okay, Pamela can you tell me how long this has been happening to you? Pamela: For a few months I guess. Addison: How often? Pamela: About 7 or 8 times a day. Izzie (excited): Everyday? Addison : Eh Dr. Stevens. Izzie: I'm sorry. Everyday? Pamela: Yes. Everyday. Addison: And you haven't seen a doctor about this before? George: It's not exactly something you want to cure is it? Addison : Dr. O'Malley! George: Sorry. (low tone) Is it? (Izzie grins) Pamela: I went to my doctor. He sent me to a shrink. Addison: And he didn't do any tests? (A voice calls out) Mr. Calva: Pammy? Are you back here? (Pamela notices a middle-aged man calling out through the window) Pamela: Oh god no. You called my father?! George: He's your emergency contact person. (Mr. Calva walks up to them) Mr. Calva: Pammy, what happened? You were in an accident? Pamela: I caused the accident Dad. Mr. Calva: You had one of your... Pamela: Episodes. Yeah. Oh no. Dang it. (She grabs a pillow to muffle her orgasm) Mr. Calva (tries to talk over it): She's a junior at UW. She's a math major. Last 3 semesters she made the honor roll. High up in the honor roll. Addison (uncomfortable): Mr. Calva we're gonna run some tests and we're gonna ... we're gonna figure out what's causing your daughter's... Pamela: Episodes. Addison: That's right. Episodes. Ok. (Chuck's room. There is a pile of about 12 tapes made already. He's doing another while Meredith is helping sitting down filming) Chuck: And when you were 14! You stole Laura Brendese right out from under me. You knew how I felt about her! Don't say you didn't know because you knew! And you went for her anyway. What kind of human being does that to his little brother? Meredith: He was 14! Cut him slack for god's sake. Oh. Sorry, I forgot we were recording. Chuck: If you wouldn't mind rewinding just a little bit. Please? (Meredith shuts the video cam and stands up) Meredith: I'm a doctor. Not a videographer and I do need to prep you for surgery. Chuck: But you offered to help. Meredith: When I thought you were saying goodbye. Chuck: I am saying goodbye. None of these people. Not one of them knows how I really feel. My whole life, I've kept it all inside. I, I don't want to carry this with me to my grave. Meredith: You seem like such a nice man. Wouldn't you just rather them remember you that way? Chuck: No. ... Please rewind the tape. (Jake is lying down about to enter an MRI machine. Cristina is standing over him) Cristina: Okay Jake it can get a little cramped in there so you have to try not to move. Jake: Yeah uh this is like my 50th MRI experience. Cristina: Right, sorry. (Cristina presses a button and Jake starts moving into the machine) Jake: It's okay. You have really nice eyes. (Cristina presses the button to stop) I'm just saying you're mostly all surly and hard core but your eyes aren't. I'm really big on eyes. The only part of my face where the tumors aren't growing. Cristina: Yeah, you've got nice eyes. Jake: Yeah? Cristina: Mmm Hmm. Jake: You, you get that I'm jailbait right? (Cristina grins broadly) (Meredith is walking out into the hall. Richard walks by her and up to a nurses' station) Richard: Meredith. Meredith: Chief. ... (she walks up quickly after him) Chief, can I ask you something? Not worked related? Richard: Mmm okay. Meredith: Do you remember my father? (Richard looks up at this) Richard: Of course. Meredith: Do you know why he left? Richard: I believe your mother asked him to. Meredith: Right but do you know why? Richard (shakes his head): No. No I'm sorry I don't. Well have a good day. Meredith: Thanks, you too. (Richard walks off unsettled) (Cristina and Derek are walking down the hall) Derek: Dr. Yang, book an OR please. (They walk to the doorway of Jake's room. Mark is in there with Jake and his parents and Alex) Mrs. Burton: How, how is that possible? Mark: It's precision work. It won't be easy but... (Derek looks furious that Mark is even in there) Derek (interrupts): Dr. Sloan, can I help you with something? Jake: He says he can fix my face. He says he can make me look like normal. (Derek gives Mark a very angry heated look that Mark just stares right back down) (Cristina and Alex are watching through some windows Richard's office where Richard, Mark and Derek are discussing the case very angrily) Alex: What did he say? Did you hear that? Cristina: Did he call him a crack-whore? Alex: You call him that. Cristina: Oh shut up. I'm trying to read lips. Shepherd's gesturing! Big gesturing! (George walks up to them) George: What do you got? Alex: Shepherd, Sloan battling it out. Cristina: Oh it's getting good! Alex: Why what do you got? (George shrugs and acts very casual) George: Just a woman down in the E.R ... having spontaneous orgasms. (Both Cristina and Alex turn to stare at George. They all sprint off. Cristina is a little behind) Cristina: Hey, wait, wait, wait! (Richard's office where the arguing is going down) Derek (angry): That is not the point! Mark (angry): The point is that the kid wants his face fixed! Derek (yells): The point is you wanna get published! Mark: Well yeah and I'm guessing your Chief of Surgery does too. You know how the press love a good before and after shot Richard. Richard (annoyed): Call me Dr. Webber. (Derek looks smug) Richard: Derek out of friendship to you I would very much like to say no to this ... jackass. But as Chief ... Derek (shakes his head): Please don't say it. Richard: Dr. Sloan if you can get the parents to sign a consent form ... (Mark nods) Mark: Round two goes to the jackass. (George, Cristina and Alex are at the doorway entrance to the pit. Pamela is dead across from them with Izzie, Mr. Calva and Addison at her bedside) Cristina: Which one? Which one? George: Twelve o'clock. Pamela: Oh no! Oh no it's happening! (George and the other two walk in a bit. Pamela starts having an orgasm. Cristina and Alex look very amused. Addison notices them and quickly closes the curtain to give her privacy) Addison: Doctors. Is there something you need? George: No. No. (Alex shakes his head) Cristina: No. Addison: Well in that case move on. (They turn around and start heading out back the way they came) Cristina: I don't get what McDreamy and McSteamy see in her. Alex: She's McHot. George: McYeah she is. (Addison is walking down a hallway. Derek comes up in the opposite direction closely followed by Mark. They all stop when they see each other. Derek instantly turns around and walks away. Addison moves to walk away and Mark chases after her) Mark: Oh come on, you're not even a little bit happy to see me? Addison: Go home! Whatever it is you came here to do, just drop it and leave. Mark: Hey we all make mistakes Addison. All 3 of us... Addison (tries to interrupt): Mark. Mark (continues ignoring Addison): but somehow, somehow I lost my best friend and the woman I loved. Addison: Please don't say that. Mark: He doesn't know how we felt. ( Addison looks away) He doesn't know you stayed with me after he left? How do you expect to work out a marriage if you can't even be honest with him? Addison: Why are you here? Mark: For one reason. To bring you home. I miss you, Addison. Addison: I'm in love with my husband Mark. Mark: But he's not in love with you. (Addison looks down) He's in love with that intern and he's not even trying to hide it. Why would even want to stick around for that? (Addison looks at him and then walks away) (Outdoor cafeteria. Meredith and Cristina are already sitting down having lunch. Alex, Izzie and George sit down with them) Alex: I think you're making it up. Izzie: He's not. I saw it four times. (Cristina chuckles) Meredith: What? George: Woman with spontaneous orgasms. Cristina: Oh yeah, uh huh. Meredith: Really? George (to Alex): You're just jealous because you didn't see it yourself. Alex: Totally am. (He gives Izzie a 'dirty' look. Izzie shakes her head at him) Meredith: Spontaneous orgasms? Really? George (to Meredith in a low voice): You look really nice today. Cristina: Any chance they're contagious? Meredith: I mean spontaneous orgasms that would solve so many problems. George (chuckles): It would. It would. (again in a low voice) I think you smell nice too. Cristina: You know it's like you see someone throw up, makes you wanna throw up too. Kinda like that? Izzie: Kinda like. (She glances at Alex. He's grinning and laughing silently at her. She tries not to laugh) You know what? I'm not hungry. (to Alex) Do you hear me? I'm not hungry. Neither is the beast. (She gets up and leaves) Cristina: The beast? Is that like some sly reference to your penis? Alex: Get your mind out of the gutter crack-whore. Cristina: Mmm. (George and Meredith laugh) George: No it's not Alex's penis. It's, you know when you haven't had sex for a long time and you forget how good it is, so you want it less? (Both Cristina and Meredith look at him weirdly) Cristina: Yeah that doesn't happen to me. Meredith: Me either. George: Me either. (CT viewing room where Izzie, George and CT tech guy are waiting for the images of Pamela's scan) George: I grew my hair for her and... Izzie: I know. George: And I don't even think she's noticed. Izzie: You could just try telling her how you feel. (The scans that come up and really blurry) CT Tech: Uh guys, she's moving. Like a lot. (Izzie speaks into the mic) Izzie: Pamela you have to hold still. (You can hear Pamela having an orgasm through the mic. The CT tech looks amused. Izzie switches off the mic) Izzie: Okay. George (amused): That's not helping the beast sleep. Izzie: Ah no. (she shakes her head) No it's not. (Jakes room where Mark is drawing on Jake's face out-lining where he'll be cutting. Cristina and Alex are watching and Jake is looking at it through a mirror) Alex: You're drawing the medial to the tumor. Mark: It's a guideline for what the bone structure should be. Jake: You hear that? I'm gonna have bone structure. (His parents and Derek walk in) Mrs. Burton: Jake. Jake: What do you think am I Dali or more of a Picasso? Mr. Burton: Could you stop doing that for a minute please? (Mark stops drawing. Mr. Burton squats near Jake) Mr. Burton: Jake, Jake I'm sorry. This surgery, the brain surgery is very dangerous. Jake: Oh don't say that. You, you don't get to change your mind. Derek: You know I know Dr. Sloan has made you some big promises ... but the bony tumors inside your skull are bad. Jake: I don't care! Derek: The bleeding will be hard to control. I'm not trying to frighten you. I just want you to understand. Jake: I do understand this...I understand this has nothing to do with plastic surgery. So, so if I'm going to be under the knife anyway then I- Mr. Burton (interrupts): The plastic surgery can be done at some- Mark (interrupts): I'm sorry to interrupt. Derek (interrupts): What you need to understand... Mark (interrupts): Excuse me Jake is actually right. (Derek scoffs) No reason to put him through a second surgery and a second round of anesthesia. (Alex nods) It's much safer to just do it all at once. Mrs. Burton: Honey we just want to focus on keeping you alive. Jake: Come on mom. I almost died when I was ten years old. And then again when I was twelve. And then again last year. But, but I'm still alive. I'm still alive. So, so I say we go for it. Mrs. Burton: Jake. Jake: Look, I...I know that you think I'm perfect just the way I am but ... that's your job to do that. But (he shrugs) ... for once in my life I'd like to think to that someone else thought that. Please? (Mr. Burton looks at his wife who is crying) Jake: Please? (Meredith is sitting in an office behind the nurses' station where she is putting the tapes Chuck made into envelopes. Derek comes up to her) Derek: You've given up surgery to go into clerical work? Meredith: I'm fulfilling a patient's dying wish to send hate mail to everyone he's ever met. Derek: Ah. ... Right now I understand the impulse. Meredith: Me too. Why do people cheat? Derek: That's a good question. Meredith: Why do you think she cheated on you? Were you different then? Were you a bad husband? (He is silent for a bit) Derek: I was ah ... (he sighs and sits down next to her) I was just a little absent. Not that that's an excuse for her. Meredith: Do you think things would have been different if you'd had kids? Derek: Do I think she wouldn't have cheated? ... (he shakes his head) I don't know. (They just look at each other for a bit. Mark comes up to the doorway) Mark: Alright man Jake's ready to roll. (Derek looks annoyed at Mark) I'm sorry did I interrupt something? Meredith: No it's fine. (Meredith and Derek both get up and leave through different doors) (CT room. Pamela is sitting in a wheelchair. Izzie is standing in front of her) Izzie: Pamela you should really try and relax. Pamela (nods): I am trying to relax. The episodes happen when I won't relax. (Izzie helps Pamela stand up) Do you really think you can fix this? Izzie: I uh hate to be insensitive but ah would it be the worst thing ever if we can't? I mean ... (she shrugs) Pamela: You know I like sex as much as the next girl. Like in bed or even private. But when you can't go to the movies or drive a car or go to church with your parents. Izzie: Oh my god. Pamela: You know that dream where you show up at high school and you're naked? Izzie: Yeah. Pamela: Yeah well I would really, really like to wake up. (Izzie nods) (OR where Burke is operating on Chuck with Meredith assisting) Meredith: It's crossed the intra-thoracic fascia? Burke: I'm afraid so. I'm gonna have to go into the chest wall. Meredith: He made 17 hate tapes. Burke: I'm sorry? Meredith: Video-tapes of himself. Telling people how much he hated them. Spewing every hurt feeling he ever had. Burke: And he mailed them? Meredith: No he wanted me to but I don't think it's a good idea. He was scared. He was in shock. He wasn't thinking clearly. Burke: That's not for you to decide Dr. Grey. He asked you for something. You told him you would do it. If you don't, that doesn't make you noble. It makes you a liar. (Meredith glances at him) Did you know she kept her apartment? Meredith: Yeah I did. Sorry. (Derek is performing surgery on Jake. The camera pans up to the gallery where the are a lot of doctors watching including Richard and Bailey with her son) Bailey (to her son): Now, Dr. Shepherd is opening the skull cap. That's what he's doing. Yes he is. (Cristina is watching in the OR as is Alex. Mark is standing near the side ready to start the plastic surgery. All of sudden Jake's heart monitor starts beeping rapidly) Derek: Oh, son of a bitch. Alright I need another unit of blood! (Cut up to the gallery) Bailey: Oh no that's too much blood. Derek: Put in the pressure and fusia. Alex: No carotid. We've got V-FIB. (They all start scrambling and yelling different orders as Jake flat lines. Mark grabs the paddles to jolt Jake's heart into starting) (Up in the gallery Bailey shakes her head sad and leaves) (Back down in the O.R Cristina looks sad as the monitor stays flat-lined) (Empty O.R with Jake's dead body. Cristina and Alex are suturing him closed) Alex: Shame he never had his face fixed. (Cristina looks at Alex thoughtfully) (Cristina and Alex are entering an attending locker room. Mark is standing there looking extremely yummy shirtless) Alex: Dr. Sloan? Mark: Yeah? (Morgue with Jake's body on a table. Cristina and Alex are standing there scrubbed up. Mark comes in) Mark: Alright, I got the parents approval. (Cristina and Alex move to put their scrubs masks on) Mark: You don't ... (he shakes his head) really need those. Alex: Right. Mark: Scalpel. (Alex hands him the scalpel) (Chuck's room post-op. Burke is in there at his bedside. Meredith is standing at the end of the bed) Burke: Mr. Eaton, can you hear me? Chuck: Oh god. Ugh. Burke: Don't try to sit up. You're gonna be in pain for sometime. But I'm please to report that we removed the entire tumor. Chuck (smiles): I'm alive? Burke: Yes sir, you are alive. Chuck: My tapes ... (Meredith holds up a bag filled with envelopes) Meredith: Would you like me to throw them away? Chuck (contemplates): No. I'd like you to mail them. I've said my peace. Sometimes a man has to say his peace. (Meredith is at a nurses' station anxiously looking up a phone book. George cheerily comes up to her) George: Mer! Do you want...I want to take you ... out for a drink tonight. Maybe not Joe's, maybe some place where we can talk? (Meredith just rifles through the phone book not really listening) You know there's something I need...I want (he chuckles) to talk to you about. (Meredith is still looking through the book) It's important. (Meredith rips out a page from the phonebook) Meredith: I don't want to make video tapes on my deathbed George. (She walks away leaving George just standing there) (A house)(Meredith is standing outside and rings the doorbell looking sad. She rings the bell again after a bit. A 50 year old or so man walks up to the door. He peers through the glass in the door and looks stunned as he realizes who Meredith is. He opens up the door. Meredith is standing looking teary-eyed) Meredith: She had an affair. Thatcher: Ye...yes. Meredith: Why didn't you stay and fight for us? (Thatches steps outside and closes the door) Thatcher: I did. I tried. Meredith: Why didn't you try harder? You just left. Thatcher (looks unsure and hopeful): Meredith. (Meredith wipes a tear away) Is there anything you need? Anything at all? Meredith: No. ... I don't need anything from you. (She turns around and walks away) (SGH, hallway) (Derek is entering an empty elevator dressed to go home. Addison quickly stops the doors from closing and hops on the elevator as well) Addison: Hey. Derek: Hey. Addison: I haven't seen you all day. Derek: I didn't want to see you today. Addison (upset): It's not my fault he showed up Derek. Derek: I know. (The doors open on a new floor revealing Mark. Mark steps in and Derek and Addison step to the side. Mark hits a button) Mark: Don't beat yourself up. Derek: I'm taking the stairs. (Derek walks out just before the doors close and Mark holds them open) Mark: Oh come on. (Derek stops and turns around) How come you can forgive her but not me? Derek: I didn't forgive her and with you I have no obligation to try! (He walks away and the doors close. Addison leans back against the wall looking upset and tired) Mark (in a quiet voice): Your marriage is over Addison. All you have to do is admit it. (he walks up close to her) And you can come back home with me. (Addison stares at him) I'm going to the bar across the street. (He gently brushes his hand against Addison's face) Meet me there. (He gets off the lift leaving Addison looking very torn and upset) (Cristina and Alex are letting Jake's parents into the morgue to let them see Jake after the plastic surgery. Mrs. Burton strokes Jake's hair) Mrs. Burton: He looks ... peaceful. Mr. Burton: He does. (They leave the morgue and Cristina covers up Jake's body. She leaves and Alex follows, closing the door behind him) (Burke and Cristina's apartment, bedroom) (Cristina is sitting in bed eating Chinese take out and reading a magazine. Burke enters the apartment and walks into the room. He drops his bag to the floor and removes his jacket) Cristina: Um... (He holds up a hand to stop her talking and walks up in front of the bed and paces back and forth) Burke: I am Preston Burke! A widely renowned cardio-thoracic surgeon. I am a professional and more than that, I am a good and kind person. (he sits on the dresser behind him) I am a person that cleans up behind myself! I am a person that cooks well. And you, you are an unbelievable slob. A slovenly, angry intern. I am Preston Burke! And you, you are the most competitive, most guarded, most stubborn, most challenging person I have ever met! And I love you. (Cristina stares at him) What the hell is the matter with you that you won't just let me? (Brief silence) Cristina: I gave up my apartment 20 minutes ago. Burke: Well alright then. (he walks into the bathroom and closes the door) MVO: I've heard it's possible to grow up. I've just never met anyone who's actually done it. (Pamela's room) (Pamela is in hospital bed and Izzie is prepping her for surgery) Pamela: Dr. Stevens, after the surgery will I still be able to...when I want to will I still be able to have (she glances at her sleeping Dad and lowers her voice) you know, episodes. (Izzie smiles) Izzie: Even better Pamela, you'll be able to have orgasms. (She walks to the window and sees Alex standing at the nurses' station) MVO: Without parents to defy we break the rules we make for ourselves. (Alex looks at her and grins. Izzie grins back) (Walkway outside SGH)(George is sitting on bench by himself looking very unhappy) MVO: We throw tantrums when things don't go our way. (Izzie walks up to George) Izzie: Hey. George (upset): She doesn't hear me. (Izzie sits down next to George) Izzie: What? George: She doesn't even hear me when I talk. Izzie: She will if you make her. (George looks at her) George: You fed the beast didn't you? Izzie (half smiles): Twice. (She shrugs. Alex is waiting for Izzie a few feet way. George rubs her arm and then pushes her away. Izzie giggles) Izzie: I'll see you later. George: Bye. (Izzie runs up to Alex and they walk off together) MVO: We whisper secrets with our best friends in the dark. (Nursing home) (Ellis is standing looking out the window at the rain outside. Richard comes up behind her and sighs) Richard: Meredith came to see me today. Ellis: Hmm. Poor baby. Poor thing. Her father left, you know? Richard: I think she knows about us Ellis. I think she's figured it out. Ellis (bemused): She's 5 years old, Richard. (She chuckles and walks to a seat) (Joe's bar) MVO: We look for comfort where we can find it. (Meredith is sitting at the bar looking contemplative. Mark walks in and sits next to her) Mark: This seat taken? Meredith: I guess not. (He sits down and speaks to Joe) Mark: Double Scotch. Single malt. (Joe nods and Mark looks at Meredith) Mark: You look sad. (Joe lays the drink down in front of Mark) Meredith: I just saw my father for the first time in 20 years. Mark: How'd that go? Meredith: Could've gone better. (There's a bit of a silence) What are you still doing here? Mark: I'm hoping Addison shows up. Meredith (surprised): You're still in love with her? Mark: You're still in love with him. Meredith: She won't show you know. Mark: No? Meredith: He's not the kind of guy you leave if you can help it. Mark (sighs): What if you're wrong? What if just this once ... life comes down on the side of the dirty mistresses? (Meredith half smiles) MVO: And we hope. Against all logic. Against all experience. (Derek's trailer) (Derek is lying down on the bed looking tired. Addison is sitting in another room at the kitchen table, looking upset and if she's just been crying) MVO: Like children, we never give up hope. (Meredith's house) (Meredith is standing in her bedroom, wrapped in a robe looking out the window at the rain. There is a knock on the door and Meredith sighs) Meredith: Come in. (George opens the door and enters and closes it behind him. George walks up to her and struggles to speak for a bit) George: I know I'm not a world renowned surgeon and I know I'm not a lot of things that you've gone for in the past. I know. ... But ... I would never leave you ... I would never hurt you ... and I will never stop loving you. (Meredith is silent and just stares at him. She then places her hands on his waist and he does the same to her. She lifts his shirt off him and they lean in to kiss) 2x19: What Have I Done To Deserve This?Original Airdate: 2/26/2006Written by: Stacy McKeeDirected by: Wendey Stanzler(Meredith's townhouse)(George is sitting on the floor of his bedroom against the door)George Voice Over: Ok so sometimes even the best of us make rash decisions.(George is standing in front of Meredith from last episode in her bedroom. It flashes back to George looking uneasy as he glances back at his door)GVO: Bad decisions. Decisions we pretty much know we're gonna regret the moment, the minute, especially the morning after.(Meredith is removing George's shirt. Meredith's bedroom where Meredith is lying in bed fully dressed also looking uneasy)GVO: I mean maybe not regret, regret because at least you know we put ourselves out there. But still ... something inside us decides to do a crazy thing.(Meredith's alarm goes off and she hits it off)GVO: A thing we know that'll probably turn around and bite us in the ass.(Derek's trailer)(Doc barks and runs up to the bed where Addison and Derek are lying. Derek seems fast asleep and Addison is wide-awake holding the pillow to herself)GVO: Yet, we do it anyway.(Doc barks loudly again and Derek wakes up groggy)Derek: Oh god. I'm coming, Doc. Just hang on. Just hold it until I get there please.Addison: I'll walk him.(Addison gets up)Derek: No it's my turn.Addison: No it's ok. I'll walk Doc. You just s...sleep. Good. (She puts on a dressing robe) Fresh outdoors. Spring morning. You just sleep.Derek: Ok.Addison: Unless you wanna talk.Derek (eyes closed and hugging his pillow): Oh god here it comes.Addison: Well I'm not saying that we have to talk. I'm just saying if you want to talk we could you know. I could start you know and, and you could talk about anything...at all you wanna talk about.Derek(groggy): Ah it's just too early for me to interpret girl flip-out into normal conversation.Addison: It's just that you usually ... you start yelling you know when you get mad. And Mark showed up yesterday and you haven't yelled yet. I'm trying to give you a chance. So just go. Yell.Derek: I don't wanna yell.Addison: You don't wanna yell? You?Derek: I just want to sleep. (Doc barks) Doc, he wants to pee. Preferably not inside this trailer.Addison: Ok.(Derek sighs. Addison puts on a dorky looking cap and stops at the doorway)Addison: You could yell if you want to. I can take it! I'm ready!Derek: Addison.(He pulls a pillow over his head)Addison: Alright. I'm going. (Doc barks) I'm going. Come on.(Meredith's house)(Meredith is grabs her keys and listens at the doorway to see if George is out there)GVO: What I'm saying is ... we reap what we sow.(George is opening his bedroom door very carefully)GVO: What comes around goes around.(He creeps out and we see that Meredith is also walking down the hallway also creeping quietly. She stops uncomfortable when see sees George and he stops too when sees her. All of sudden Izzie's bedroom door opens with a naked Alex pulling on his underwear and heading to the bathroom. Izzie steps out in her PJs)Izzie (to Meredith): Morning. (She turns and sees George) Morning. (The other two are just silent) What? So I slept with him again. So I'm a big whore. Big horny whore who can't get enough. Can we get over the shocked silence already?(She looks confused as she realizes George looks a little uncomfortable)GVO: It's karma and any way you slice it ...(Meredith hurries back to her bedroom and Izzie turns to George)Izzie: What's going on?(George shrugs)GVO: ... karma sucks.(SGH)(Locker room)(Meredith is getting ready in front of the mirror tying up her hair. George walks up to brush his teeth but goes back when he realizes Meredith is there. Cristina is standing with Izzie and Alex who are sitting on a bench at the lockers a few feet away watching the whole situation unravel)Alex: 50 bucks says O'Malley caught her doing Mark Sloan.(Izzie hits him. Meredith heads to her locker)Izzie: There's something going on. I mean look at them.Alex: Alright he walked in on her doing McDreamy.(Cristina looks bemused and Izzie gives him a look)Alex: Did I just call that dude McDreamy?Cristina: Oh you know you did.Alex: Awesome. (to Izzie) You are ruining my life.Izzie: Ha.(He moves up to her really close and moves to kiss her but Izzie gets up)Cristina: Get a room.(Izzie walks up to them and Cristina follows her)Izzie: Guys.George: Excuse me.Izzie: Oh sorry. (she ducks out of George's way) What's ah...what's a going on?(George and Meredith both give Izzie weird looks)Meredith: Nothing.Cristina: Oh you know we're going to find out anyway.Izzie: You tell us and maybe we can help.George: There's nothing to tell.Cristina: Oh that means there's something to tell.George: Come on.Meredith: There's nothing to tell.(Patient room where a middle-aged man named Keith Paulus lies in bed. His fianc?e Amy is sitting on chair next to the bed as Nurse Olivia takes Keith's temperature)Amy: Well how bought Gardenias? Like masses and mountains of Gardenias?Keith: Are we worried about bees?Amy: Okay that's why I love him.(Olivia smiles)Amy: No Gardenias.(Izzie, Alex, George, Meredith and Cristina are in the room. Burke walks in)Burke: Who would like to present?Cristina: Ah Keith Paulus admitted last night with chest pains. (Keith nods smiling at Dr. Burke) Status post acute MI. Ah no family or personal history of heart disease. No cardiac risk factors.Amy: He's healthy as a horse.Keith: A horse who's in bed after just having a heart attack.(Meredith moves around uncomfortable as does George. Izzie notices)Amy: See now any minute I think you're going to tell us this was a false alarm and it just seemed that he had a heart attack.(Burke checks Keith with his stethoscope)Keith: She talks when she gets nervous.(Keith winks at Amy)Burke: Hmm I understand. Mr. Paulus unfortunately the scans show what looks like a mass around your heart. A very, very large mass.(Amy gets up and moves to stand next to Keith nervous)Keith: Mass ... okay. Is that code for tumor?Amy: Okay that's absurd. He doesn't have a tumor. He's incredibly healthy.Burke: We won't know until there's further exploration which is why I'd like to do an angiogram today.Keith: Okay, good.(Amy looks a little shocked)(Meredith is walking down the hallway. Izzie and Alex follow laughing and grinning at each other. Cristina follows those two with George lagging behind. George purposely drops his pen in front of Cristina to stop her walking. He picks it up)George: Did Meredith say any...anything to anyone about anything?Cristina: No. Are you gonna dish?George: No. (Cristina looks at him) No.(She starts to walk again)Cristina: Leave me alone I'm working.George (walks up to her): Well good because I don't want to talk about it. Ever.Cristina (looks like she doesn't care): Fine. Then don't.George: I'm just saying.Cristina: Uh.(The doors at the opposite end of the hallway open and Addison walks through as if she's got a major wedgie. They all stop and stare at her as she walks by)Cristina (to the others): Are you? That's weird.(Patient's room with Derek. There's a cute young black boy named Shawn Begleiter lying in the bed holding a bucket. His parents Rick and Michael are standing with him at his bedside. In relation to Rick just imagine Jack from 'Will and Grace')Rick: Do you need to throw up again?Shawn: No.Rick: Cause there's no shame in needing to throw up.Shawn: Dad I don't need to throw up.Alex: Shawn Begleiter. 11 years old. In for intractable vomiting after a minor head injury.Rick: Oh I wouldn't exactly say minor.Michael: He was hit in the head with a baseball.Rick: Yeah playing first and this little dolt hairy dopple hammer hits the line-diver out of nowhere and Shawn wasn't looking and (he makes a gesture and sighs. Derek is checking Shawn. He mutters to Michael) You know this is my fault. I knew I shouldn't have let him play little league. It's clearly a dangerous sport!Michael: Rick, let's let the doctors talk.Rick: They wanna know what happened. Michael, I'm telling them what happened.Michael: Shawn's gonna be ok. (to Derek) Right?Derek: Yeah we have to keep a close eye on him. (Rick nods) Okay recommendations?Meredith: Traumatic brain injury could indicate anything from a concussion to intracranial hemorrhaging. (Rick brings his hand to his chest upset) I'd start with a H & P, do a thorough neuro-exam and get a CT.Derek: Good.Rick: Are you sure you don't need to throw up?Shawn (sighs): Dad.(Rick nods)(Addison is standing at the doorway of Tucker's patient room where he is dressed and packing up his things ready to go home. Addison still looks like she has a major wedgie or something)Addison: Tucker.(Tucker turns around)Tucker: Dr. Shepherd.Addison: How um ... how are you feeling?(She walks into the room)Tucker (smiles): I'm feeling great. I get to go home.(Addison forces a smile back)Addison: That's fantastic. Is Miranda gonna meet you there?(Bailey opens up the bathroom door and walks out of the bathroom holding her little baby Will)Bailey: No. I'm driving him there.Addison (looks relived): Oh thank god.Bailey: You okay?Addison: I need a consult.(Tucker gives Bailey a look)Bailey (defensive to Tucker): I'm not working.Addison (clears her throat): Hmm. Miranda, I need a consult.(Exam room where Addison is sitting on a table in stirrups and Bailey is looking under Addison's skirt)Bailey: Oh no.Addison: Please don't say that.Bailey: Addison, I'm so, so, sorry. You have poison oak, ( Addison moans and lies back on the exam seat/bed) where nobody wants to have poison oak.GVO: Like I was saying ...Addison: Oh god.GVO: ... payback's a bitch.(Tucker's room where Derek is checking on Tucker who is holding William)Derek: It's official my friend. You get to go home.Tucker (smiles): I can't thank you enough. I thank you. My wife thanks you. (Will gurgles) Oh and my son thanks you.Derek: Hey where is your wife? You can't drive for another six weeks.(Richard walks in)Richard: Dr. Shepherd is a stickler when it comes to his patients' recovery. I should know.(They shake hands)Tucker: Hey Richard.Richard: Wanted to stop in before Bailey took you home.Tucker: Uh well she's here somewhere. (he gestures to Derek) Ah your wife came in earlier. Said she needed a consult.(Derek looks confused)Richard: Consult? Bailey is on maternity leave.Tucker: Seemed like some kind of personal consult. It's okay. I don't mind waiting.(Addison is in the exam room. Bailey pulls back the curtain and sits down in front of Addison who looks very irritated at the itchiness of her legs)Bailey: Okay I'm back.Addison: You didn't make up a chart did you? Please tell me you did not make up a chart.Bailey: I did not make up a chart which means (Bailey puts on some gloves) we are officially stealing this calamine lotion and these gloves. You take it up with the Chief.Addison (horrified): The Chief? No, no, no, no. I can not take this up with the Chief.Bailey: I'm just kidding.Addison: Okay did I make jokes with you when you were in the stirrups?Bailey: No you did not and I'm apologizing.Addison (tries to rub her legs together): Uh!(Bailey lifts up Addison's skirt)Bailey: Oh my!Addison: What?Bailey: These blisters are growing awful fast. Yeah I gotta give you a shot of steroids.Addison (sits up aghast): Steroids?Bailey: I've never seen a case of poison oak this bad. ( Addison sighs and lies back down and Bailey continues looking) Ew, girl what did you do?Addison: Oh for the love of God Miranda, the calamine!Bailey: Oh right sorry.(She moves to get the calamine lotion)(Alex is pushing Shawn in a wheelchair down the hall. Meredith is walking with them holding Shawn's chart)Alex: What happened with you and O'Malley?Meredith: Nothing.Alex: Well whatever it is I've done worse.Meredith: How do you know I did something? How do you know George didn't do something?Alex: Because Bambi looks pissed and you look guilty.(The walk into the CT room)Alex: Here we are. Come on buddy let me help you up here. (He lifts Shawn on the table of the CT machine) There you go.Meredith: Fine. I did something. A terrible, terrible something.Shawn: One time I put a raw egg in my sock drawer for a month and then I smashed it in my teacher's grade book.Meredith: Ew.Shawn: My Dads were really mad.(Alex looks amused)Meredith: Well what I did was worse than that.Shawn: Cool.Alex: Cool.(OR where Burke is doing an angiogram on Keith. Cristina and George are assisting. George shoots a glance at Cristina)Cristina: Stop pouting.George: I'm not pouting.Cristina: Oh please I don't have to even look at you. I can feel you pouting. Whatever Meredith did it wasn't on purpose so get over it already. (Burke clears his throat loudly) I'm not being inappropriate. He's acting like she skinned his puppy.Burke (whispers back to her): Cristina, it's not nice.Cristina: Well I'm not a nice person.George: If you knew what she did you would understand.Cristina: No I don't understand. I don't wanna know. What I want is to analyze this angiogram, put this sucker into surgery and excise his cardio-thoracic mass.George (looking at the screen): Doesn't look like a mass to me.Burke: That's because it's not.(Keith's patient room where he is now back in sitting upright on the bed. Amy is sitting next to him. Burke is standing there with his chart. Cristina and George are there as well)Burke: What we thought was a mass is actually a coronary artery aneurysm with a fistula into one of your heart chambers.Keith: Is it ah easy to fix?Amy: Before you answer that question I just want to let you know that we are getting married. We're, we're in love and we're getting married and we're not so young so we've been waiting a long time for this. I have my dress and everyone's coming and it's supposed to be the happiest day of our lives and that the only reason I'm telling you this is because you have this look on your face. This dark ominous look and...Keith (interrupts): Oh honey.Amy (continues on force smiling) ... we're silver lining kind of people so I just thought I might help if you knew that.Burke: Dr. Yang, would you close the door? (Cristina shuts the door and Burke clears his throat and Amy instantly looks scared) We can ah- we can operate on the aneurysm. Try to repair it. But this type of lesion is extremely delicate. Chances of it rupturing in surgery are high.Keith: What keeps it from rupturing if I'm just walking down the street?Burke: Nothing. The risks are high either way.Amy: This isn't happening. This can't be happening.Keith: It's okay Amy.Amy: No it's not.Burke: I know it's a lot to process but if we're going to operate, we need to do to it as soon as possible.Amy (shocked and teary-eyed): We're getting married.Keith (strokes her hair and whispers): Honey.Amy: We're getting...we're getting married.Keith (soothingly): Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.(Burke, Cristina and George are outside Keith's room)George: They seem like a really nice couple. They don't seem like they deserve this.Burke: Um they never do.George: Really? I guess I just think I believe in karma. You know I mean good people deserve good things. At least that's how I thought the universe worked.Cristina: How can you think that and practice medicine?(George gives looks up at her shocked and Burke gives her a disapproving look)George (angry): Why...I'm not saying that everybody who gets sick or everybody who dies is bad. I'm just saying that ah I think that there's a balance. Or there should be balance! I should...there should be some sort of balance. That's (he shrugs and mutters to himself)Burke: Good god O'Malley, what the hell did Grey do to you?(George looks up at Burke and then gives Cristina a look and Cristina just looks amazed)(Shawn's room where he's back in his bed. Derek is standing in front of Shawn's bed and Shawn's parents are both standing at the bedside)Michael: What exactly do you mean when you say blood in the ventricle?(Derek nods but doesn't get to answer)Rick: Oh my god his brain is bleeding?Derek: Well there's no need to panic. It's a small amount of blood and these injuries often resolve themselves.Rick: Yeah but what if it doesn't? Will he lose IQ points? Because he's very smart (Derek shakes his head no and Michael shakes his head apologetically) and that's very important to him and he likes to be smart. (to Michael) Do you think we should sue that little brute that hit the ball? (Michael raises his eyebrows) Or the coach? We should sue the coach.Michael: Shawn loves the coach.Rick: Yeah Shawn's brain is bleeding!Michael: Rick.Shawn: Dad, I'm fine. Geeze.Derek: Yeah. He's awake, alert, minimal pain. These are all good signs. I just want to monitor him over the next forty-eight hours.Rick (nods): Okay. Good. Hear that Shawn? Good signs. (Shawn nods) That means honey you shouldn't be scared.Shawn (nods): I'm not.Rick: I am.Michael & Shawn (at the same time): We know.(Izzie is wearing a yellow gown coming out of the Pit to outside into the waiting area for the ambulances. Alex is sitting on a bench holding a cupcake)Izzie: Oh they paged you too? Must be something big.(Alex stands up)Alex: Nobody paged me.Izzie (refers to the back of her gown): Can you tie this?Alex: Nobody paged you either.Izzie: Yes they did. I just got a page. (Alex pushes her against the wall and Izzie starts smiling) Did you page me? Alex. (He holds up the cupcake to her) Oh. Oooh.(She starts licking the cream of the cake and Alex starts kissing her cheek)Alex: You free tonight?Izzie: I might be. Hmm ... Hey are you still working with Meredith?(Alex shakes his head and kisses her. An ambulance can be heard coming in)Alex: I'm trying to kiss you.Izzie: Yeah but she won't say anything about what happened between her and George (Alex shakes his head) because I'm starting to get really worried.(Alex just kisses her)(You can hear Ray the paramedic wheeling in a patient)Ray: 35 year old male. Shortness of breath. Had a syncopal episode.(Izzie looks to the side and sees Denny Duquette the heart transplant patient from episode 2x13 being wheeled in)Ray (trails off as he wheels Denny): Pulse is rapid and irregular.Izzie (pulls away as she realizes): Oh my god. It's Denny.(She starts running down the hall after the paramedics)Alex: What?Izzie (calls back): It's Denny!(She leaves Alex looking gloomy holding the cupcake in his hand)(Trauma room where Denny is being placed onto a gurney in the middle of the room surrounded by E.R. doctors. The ER resident comes in)Izzie: What did you get in the field?Doctor: Hey this is my patient until I sign him over to you.(Alex jogs in)Izzie: I know this guy. He's on top of the donor list for a new heart. That makes him surgical. I've already paged Dr. Burke and he's on his way. So you better start signing now. (to the paramedic) What did he get in the field?Ray: We gave him 40 of furosemide. Rhythm didn't change after 6 of adenosine.(Ray and the other paramedic leave. Izzie looks upset at this and Burke walks in)Burke: What do we got?Izzie: It's Denny.Alex: Transplant dude.Burke: Denny?Alex: Transplant candidate. Acute dysrhythmia and CHF. Vitals all over the place.Burke (checks Denny): His heart rhythm is a mess.Alex: He's in heart failure.Izzie (panicked): Bizoprolo can reduce the chance of mortality. Can we try that? What about ACE inhibitors? Digoxin! Somebody load him with dig!Burke: Stevens slow down. He's holding on. Barely but he's holding on.Izzie (still panicked): Isn't there something more that we can do? There has to be something more we can do.Burke: The best we can do is to get him up to CICU and wait and see if his heart will stabilize.Alex: Izzie, we should...we should go.Izzie (pushes off Alex and goes up to Denny): No you go um I'm gonna stay.(Alex walks out)(Bailey is rummaging through some medical supplies in a hallway. Richard comes up to her)Bailey (to herself): No, yes, yes.Richard: I see you.(Bailey jumps a little)Bailey: No you don't.Richard: Your husband was discharged over an hour ago.Bailey: I'm not here.Richard: Go home. You're not working today. You're on maternity leave.Bailey: Exactly.(She takes the medical supplies she grabbed and heads off)(Cristina is checking Keith's heartbeat with a stethoscope in Keith's room. Amy is standing next to him)Cristina: Have you made your decision?Keith: Wh- Oh ah about the surgery um (he glances at Amy) no we're still ah- we're still talking about it. Uh we were thinking maybe we should wait until after the wedding. Um.Amy: So, so how is he?Cristina: Ah he's pretty much the same.Keith: Oh that's good, right?Cristina: Ahh no. Not really. It... (she sighs) see with your condition you're gonna be okay until your not and if you opt against the surgery and if you leave now it's just a matter of time. And you might make it to your wedding but you might not and you won't know. You're just gonna be okay until you die.Keith: Wh...what? (he chuckles) You're trying to comfort me?Cristina: No. I'm trying to convince you to let Dr. Burke operate.Amy: So that he can die today?Cristina: He might die today anyway but Dr. Burke is the very best and he's your very best chance.(Denny's room in the ICU. Burke is at the nurses' station outside just hanging up the phone. Izzie comes up to the desk)Burke: Stevens. Is everything all right?Izzie: Ah it's just ... it's just not fair you know. It's really not fair. (she sighs) We treat jerks all the time. Patch 'em up, send 'em off whether they deserve it or not. No big deal but ... Denny. He's a good guy Dr. Burke. He's a really good guy with a bad heart and all we can do for him is wait.Burke: Believe me I know. I've been treating Denny a long time.Izzie: He doesn't deserve this.Burke: What he deserves is the best cardiac care. We're giving him that. (Izzie nods) You really like him don't you?Izzie (shrugs): He just ... he just doesn't deserve this.(Addison is in her exam room still in the stirrups. Bailey is sitting in front of her with an ice pack. Bailey puts on the ice-pack on Addison)Addison : Ah!Bailey: Sorry, how's that? Is that ice-pack helping?Addison: I don't know. I don't think so. Eh!Bailey: Mind if I ask how exactly this happened?Addison: I slept with Mark!Bailey: Oh! ... And he had poison oak on his...Addison: No! I slept with Mark a year ago and apparently this is what I get!Bailey: Yeah. But how did you...Addison (upset): I live in a trailer. I have Meredith Grey's dog. And I went outside to throw a stick and I had to pee. So I squatted! Because I didn't want to go inside and wake up my husband because the way he's been looking at me since yesterday. I just wanted a few minutes of peace. (she starts crying and points to her legs) And this is what I get.Bailey: No. No, no. Don't cry.Addison (crying): This is what I get!Bailey: Please don't cry! Please don't cry! (Bailey stands up) Stop! You're gonna make me- (Addison continues crying and Bailey removes her hands from her breasts. Her shirt is all wet) lactate.Addison (crying): I'm sorry.Bailey: Get, get me some gauze. Get me some gauze.Addison (crying and hands over some gauze): I'm sorry.(There's a knock at the door)Bailey: Stop. Shh.(There's a knock again. Bailey opens the door slightly and reveals Richard standing there)Bailey: Can I help you Chief?Richard: Dr. Bailey. I don't know what you're doing in there but whatever it is- (Bailey opens the door wider and Richard notices the two large round wet stains on Bailey's top) Oh. Oh. Oh no. Um (he clears his throat) Dr. Bailey. Ah, I'm ... sorry. Uh carry on.(He clears his throat again and walks away. Bailey shakes her bemused and closes the door)(Derek is entering Shawn's room. Debbie the nurse is standing over Shawn's bedside and Meredith is standing on the other side. Rick and Michael are standing a bit to the side. Shawn appears conscious and Debbie and Meredith are prepping him for surgery. Another nurse is there as is Alex)Derek: Okay fill me in.Meredith: I was doing his routine neuro check...Derek: Uh huh.Meredith (continues) I noticed he was altered. Most likely a clot. Acute hydrocephalus.(Derek checks Shawn's eyes)Derek: Oh damn. We need to relieve the pressure right now.Alex: Cranial access kit is ready.Rick: Cranial access? Access to Shawn's brain?Derek: Debbie, get them out of here.Debbie: Gentlemen.(She starts leading Rick and Michael out but Rick pushes past her)Michael: Rick.Rick: We're not going anywhere.Derek: Look I'm about to drill a hole into your son's skull. You don't want to watch this.Rick: He's our son. We're not leaving. (Michael tries to get him to leave) We are not leaving his side!Derek: 15 blade please. I want a catheter ready to drain as soon as I penetrate the dura.(Michael takes Rick's hand in his and Rick takes on Shawn's hands)Derek (to the parents): Do not panic.(Rick nods)Derek: I want the drill.(Alex hands him the drill and Derek starts drilling into Shawn's brain)Derek: Almost in. Okay there. (A little bit of blood squirts out and Rick clenches his eyes shut) Get that. (he hands the drill back) Okay catheter to go in. (he places the catheter in)Meredith (checks Shawn's eyes): Pupils reactive.Derek: Pressure's stabilizing.Rick: Is he okay?Meredith (to Alex and Meredith): I want neuro checks every hour and increase the supervision. (to Rick and Michael) We...we're in the clear for now.Rick: We're in the clear?Derek: You guys did well.(Shawn is conscious now)Shawn: Ah I have a headache.Alex: Welcome back little man. (his pager goes off) 911.(He leaves as Derek is sewing up the hole he made. Rick looks a little pale. Shawn notices)Shawn: Dad you look white, are you okay?(Rick half nods and then shakes his head and then pulls to the side and vomits onto the floor)Debbie: Oh great.(Denny's room where his monitors are beeping rapidly. Izzie is already standing in there with a nurse as Alex comes in)Alex: You got in here quick.Izzie: We got to get his heart rate under control. (to the nurse) Push 300 of amniodarone now.(Burke enters)Burke: Status?Izzie: Atrial fibrillation. His heart is beating too fast. If we can't get it to slow down...Alex (injects the drug and shrugs): It'll give out.Burke: Alright let's try synchronized cardio-version. (to the nurse) Push 5 of morphine.(The nurse hands Alex the morphine)Denny (groggy): Izzie?Izzie: You're awake.Denny: Hey, I was hoping I might get to see you.Izzie: You're working us pretty hard around here.Denny: The things I have to do to get a girl's attention.(Alex seems annoyed)Burke: Denny, we're about to send a series of electric currents through your body. Hopefully the shocks will be enough to slow your heart rate back to normal.(Another nurse brings in the crash cart)Izzie: I'll be here the whole time.(Alex seems really annoyed now)Denny: Is this gonna hurt?Burke: It won't be fun.Denny (to Izzie): Iz, maybe you ought to hold my hand then huh?(Izzie smiles and takes Denny's hand into her own)Alex: Do you mind if I handle the paddles?Burke: Be my guest.(Alex takes the paddles and moves to shock Denny with them)Izzie: Ready?Denny: Yeah. Hit me.Alex: Clear.(Izzie drops Denny's hand as Alex shocks Denny)Denny: AUGH! God!Burke: No change. Try it one hundred.(Alex looks like he's getting some kind of sick pleasure from this)Alex: Clear!(He shocks Denny again)Denny: AUGH! Oh, oh, oh! Holy smokes. (his heart monitor returns to normal) Oh.Burke: Denny, you are a lucky man.(Izzie looks down relieved)Denny (breathing hard): Oh. Oh, oh Doc. I outta kick your ass for making me yell like a baby in front of the girl I'm trying to impress man. (Izzie can't stop a smile from forming) Oh geeze.(Izzie is chuckling and Alex looks on jealous)(Bailey is walking down the hallway trying to clean up her shirt still. Derek notices her a few feet away)Derek: Dr. Bailey.(Bailey starts walking faster and Derek runs up quickly to catch her)Derek: Dr. Bailey! Did you hear me?(He stops her)Derek: Ah, ah I'm a little distracted right now.(Derek notices the 'spots')Derek: Oh yes. I've been paging you.Bailey: I'm not on call. I'm on maternity leave.Derek: I've been paging my wife as well but she hasn't been answering either. You know where she is.Bailey: Just because I know doesn't mean you should. (Derek looks confused) There's some things you don't get to know. Not from me and really you don't wanna know.Derek: Yeah but you have to tell me where she is. (Bailey looks up with a look saying 'Oh really?') I saved your husband's life.Bailey: She saved my baby.Derek: So baby trumps husband?Bailey (nods): Mmm.(She walks away)Derek (calls out in disbelief): Baby trumps husband?(Meredith is walking down a hallway writing in a chart. George is walking the same hall from the opposite direction. They stop when they both see each other. George kinda moves to talk to Meredith but Meredith puts her chart away and walks back the way she came quickly. George looks on hurt)(Waiting room lounge where George enters to make himself coffee. He notices that the room is not empty but has Amy in it sitting at a table with her wedding planner)George: Hey Amy.Amy: The website said you should save your receipts.George: I'm sorry?Amy: Oh you know just in case something happens. You know, have them. (She opens up the wedding planner) I have all of ours here right here. You know I've got my dress and the band and the ballroom deposit and the honeymoon. And my mom said I shouldn't you know keep them. It was bad luck. It was tempting fate.George: This isn't your fault.Amy: You, you have a life. You, you fall in love. You, you make plans. You have fantasies. (She closes the book and stands up) And none of them involve all of them ending in the blink of the eye.(George looks sad as he understands and Amy leaves)(Alex is whistling walking down a hallway where he notices Meredith sitting on some empty chairs in corner. He walks up to her)Alex: What are you doing?Meredith: Hiding.(He sits down across from her)Alex: Alright, so you slept with O'Malley. Get over it already.Meredith: He told you?Alex (shocked): Eh ... no.(Meredith stares at him and Alex still stares at her shocked until he starts to laugh)Alex: Oh I was just kidding. Uh. I mean it's not like I should be surprised.Meredith: Why not?Alex: Because when your life is sucking, you get drunk and sleep with inappropriate men. It's your thing. Whatever. I find it charming.Meredith: You sleep with inappropriate women when you're sober.Alex: One inappropriate woman and Izzie forgave me for that. O'Malley, he's not gonna get over this.Meredith: Izzie hasn't forgiven you.Alex: Yes she has. We're together.Meredith: No you're not. Izzie may be sleeping with you but she'll never see you the way she saw you before you slept with Olivia.Alex: Why are you trying to piss me off?Meredith: You're trying to suggest that it's forgivable for you to sleep with Olivia but not forgivable for me to sleep with George.(George is standing at the doorway near them)George: You told him? I...Meredith: George.George: Wow when I'm wrong about someone...Meredith (interrupts): No I...George (continues): I am really wrong!Meredith: No George! (George starts walking off and Meredith and Alex start running after him) It's not! It's not what you think!Alex: Dude chill!George (stops angry): You chill! You chill! I'm not...I'm not gonna chill.(he starts walking off again and they start following him again)Meredith: George! I...(Izzie comes into the hallway)Izzie: What's going on?Alex: The fetus is freaking out.Izzie: I can see that. (She tries to grab George's arm) Why are you freaking out?(George stops again and Cristina comes in from the other side of the hall)George: You think that someone is your friend you know. (Meredith looks ashamed and George is angry) You think at the very least she'd respect your privacy!Cristina: What's going on?(George starts walking off again and Meredith follows)Alex: Baby boy is freaking out.Izzie: She can see that!Cristina (at the same time): I can see that!Izzie: Why is he freaking out?(The others follow as well and see George and Meredith a few feet away. George is standing in front of the door leading into a stairwell)Meredith: George, can we at least talk?George: I don't wanna talk! Not to you! I wanted to keep my mouth shut! And if you hadn't been running away from me every time you see me you would know that.(George enters the stairwell and starts hurrying down the stairs. Meredith follows)Meredith: Okay, you're right but can we just talk now?(The others follow)George (yells): You wanna talk now because you told everyone that we had sex!Meredith (eyes widen): Shh.Izzie: You had sex?!!Cristina: You had sex with George?!!George: You didn't tell them?Meredith: No.George: Damn it!(He moves to walk down the next flight of stairs but ends up falling down them instead)(All the girls yelled concerned)George: Ah!(Alex just laughs. Izzie whacks his arm)(George is sitting in a trauma room with what looks like a sore arm. Alex, Izzie, Meredith and Cristina are watching him through the window. Meredith walks away)George: Go away.(They walk away to where Meredith is standing a few feet away)Meredith: He's gonna be okay right?Alex: He dislocated his shoulder. He's gonna be fine.(Alex walks off)Meredith: That's not exactly what I meant.Izzie: Meredith, if you can't make this right, if you can't fix this with George, just so you know if it comes to choosing sides, I'm on his.(Izzie walks off and Meredith turns to look at Cristina)Cristina: He's the weaker kid. I mean I don't even beat up on weaker kids. It's cheap.Meredith (teary-eyed): I did a terrible thing. I didn't... (she shakes her head) I did a terrible thing.Cristina: He's been in love with you since Day One. There's no way you didn't know that. (Meredith looks down) We all do terrible things.Meredith: Thank you.Cristina: You're welcome.(She leaves)(George is sitting the trauma room looking gloomy. An orthopedic surgeon named Calliope "Callie" Torres walks in with George's chart)Callie: George O'Malley?George: Uh hi.Callie: Dr. George O'Malley. You're the heart in the elevator guy!George: Yeah that's me.Callie (smiles): That was amazing.George: Uh thanks. I uh dislocated my shoulder.(Callie checks his shoulder)Callie: Yeah.George: Oh!Callie: I can see that.George: It's really not so bad.(Callie moves to write in his chart)Callie: Yes it is. Pick your poison.George: Uh ... no pain killers, thanks.Callie: Bold choice.George: No I just ah officially I'm on duty.Callie (chuckles): And planning to stay?George: Mmm Hmm.Callie: Bolder choice.George: All I need is help ah popping it back in.Callie: You got into a fight?George: I fell, fell down some stairs.(Callie moves to the side where George has dislocated his arm)Callie: Where? At your girlfriend's?George: What? No I'm single.Callie: Single, huh.(She grabs George's arm suddenly and snaps it back into place)George: Augh! Ah!Callie: It hurts less if you don't see it coming.(She helps George place his arm into a sling. It's obvious she seems to 'like' him)George: All set?Callie: All set.George: Okay. (he gets up) Thanks.Callie: You're welcome.George: Bye.Callie: Bye.(George leaves)(Meredith and Derek are entering an empty elevator. Meredith looks upset and Derek looks at her concerned)Meredith: Don't.Derek: Don't?Meredith: Don't be nice to me. ... I did a terrible thing.Derek: We all do terrible things.Meredith: No, I...I...I did a thing that I...I can't even believe I did and ... I was sad (she shakes her head) and uh. I'm pretty sure I'm gonna lose all my friends.Derek: You won't lose me.(He half-smiles at her)Meredith: You're not my friend.Derek: Yes I am. (She shoots him a look) Well then I could be. (he smiles) I'm a very good friend.Meredith: No we can't be friends.Derek: We could be friends. You'd be lucky to have me.Meredith (upset): How? How can we be friends?Derek: We could ah ... hangout. Mmm hmm. I walk Doc every other morning. Tiger Mountain Trail. We could meet. Have coffee. Watch Doc play and ... discuss the complex nature of our existence.Meredith: Right.Derek: We could. Might be fun. I could be your friend Meredith.(The doors ding open)Meredith: No, we can't be friends.(She walks out. The doors close on Derek who is looking down and gloomy)(Denny's patient room in ICU. Izzie is in there with him. He smiles at her and she smiles back)Izzie: Just adding nitro. Your blood pressure is stable now. Your CHF has improved and the atrial fibrillation resolved.Denny (smiles): I like the way you say fibrillation.Izzie (sexy voice): Fibrillation. (she laughs)Denny (smiling): Tease.Izzie: How are you feeling?Denny: You ah ... you believe in karma?Izzie: Um ... actually I do. Yeah.Denny (grins): I think you might be mine.Izzie (chuckles and smiles): Well you must have been very, very good to deserve me.Denny (grins): Must have.(Izzie laughs. Alex is looking on jealously through he window of the patient room)(Derek is walking down the hall and about to knock on the door to Addison's room. Richard comes up to him)Richard: I wouldn't do that if I were you.Derek: Dr. Bailey said she...Richard (interrupts): If she wants some privacy then we will give her, her privacy, understood?Derek: Well Dr. Bailey paged me.Richard: She did?Derek: Yeah.(Bailey comes up to them also carrying her baby boy)Bailey: I did and I'm still not here. I'm still on maternity leave and (to Richard) I still need some privacy Chief. (She opens the door to the room and to Derek) Come here.(Both Derek and Richard try to walk in but only Derek gets in before Bailey closes the door in Richard's face. Derek is in the room trying to peer over the curtain shielding Addison)Bailey: No moving, no peeking, no pulling the curtain. Just stand there. Let her talk to you, understand?Derek: Is this really necessary?Bailey: I said do you understand?Derek: I'm not mentally challenged.Bailey: I'm not so sure about that. (speaks loudly so Addison can hear) Let her talk.(Bailey leaves the room)Derek: Addison, this is ridiculous.Addison: Stay where you are! Promise!Derek: Okay, I promise.Addison: I'm gonna show you something and when I do you do not get to laugh and you do not get to gloat.Derek: Why would I gloat?Addison: I have poison oak.(Derek pulls back the curtain to reveal Addison sitting upright in the stirrups looking glum)Derek: What?(Addison slowly pulls up the sheet covering her legs. Derek looks confused and then steps forward and peers down at Addison lower body. He stands up amused)Derek: Hmm. You do indeed have poison oak.(Addison has a very grumpy look on her face and Derek is struggling not to smile)Addison (yells): So are we even yet? I mean is this bad enough? Have we repaid my debt to society, Derek?(Derek cracks up laughing and Addison throws a pillow at him also trying not to smile. He continues laughing and throws the pillow back at her. Addison chuckles)(Bailey is outside listening in through the door)Derek (amused): Alright, let's take a look.Addison: Get out!(Bailey smiles and starts walking down the hallway with her baby)Bailey: Oh. Ah. Come on Tuck. Let's take your daddy home. Oh. Big boy. Big boy.(George has his arm in a sling and Cristina walking down the hallway)George: She really didn't tell you about it?Cristina: No. God is that a bad thing?George: Well she tells you everything. So it didn't even matter enough to her to talk about it.(Cristina stops George walking)Cristina: Okay George, the pity thing? Not good. If you want crappy things to stop happening to you, then stop accepting crap and demand something more.(Cristina walks off to the nearby nurses' station and George is about to walk into Keith's room when Amy comes out with her wedding planner and her bag)George: Hey Amy.Amy: Oh could you tell ah Dr. Burke that um Keith is going to have the surgery.(Cristina walks up to them)Cristina: Oh that's great.George: Where are you going?Amy: Um I'm...I'm not strong enough for this.George: Oh Amy I know it's hard but your fianc?e say is going into surgery. You're gonna want to be here when he wakes up.Amy (sad): No I won't. Um he's not my fianc?e anymore.(She moves to walk off)George: You're leaving him?Amy: I'm not strong enough for this.Cristina: So the in sickness and in health part of your vows, you're just planning to leave those out?Amy: Please try to understand. I don't like that I'm not strong enough. I just know that I'm not.(Nurse Olivia suddenly opens the door to Keith's room and pops out)Olivia: George, he's crashing.George: What?Cristina: His aneurysm may have blown. Page Dr. Burke!(They rush into Keith's room where you can hear the monitors beeping rapidly. Amy looks sick and walks away)(Burke is about to operate on Keith in the O.R with an O.R team. Cristina is assisting)Burke: Okay everyone. It's actually a coronary artery aneurysm.(George is sitting in a fairly empty gallery by himself watching. Olivia comes in dressed to go home)Olivia: He's gonna live?George: Burke's a miracle worker. Do you know this guy's fianc?e left?Olivia: Oh. Sounds like he dodged a bullet.George: I don't think he's gonna see it that way.Olivia: If she can't love him back the way he loves her ... then she doesn't deserve him.(George looks down)George: You heard about me and Meredith?Olivia: Well everyone heard. George, you were yelling about it in the hallway. (George sighs and brings his hand to his forehead) Must've sucked. I'm sorry.George: I'm sorry. (Olivia looks confused) Um...If I made you feel anything like I'm feeling right now. ... I'm sorry.Olivia: That's nice to hear.(Olivia leaves)(Meredith's house, George's room)(George is emptying out his sock drawer with his one agile arm. He dumps it onto the bed. The scene switches him to shutting his suitcase and locking it. He opens the door to Meredith's bedroom and he pauses at the doorway. He flashes back to the previous night)(George and Meredith are in her bed together. He moves from under the sheets to rest on top of her. He appears breathless. They both appear to be naked. George seems to be happy)George: How's that?Meredith: Good. Really good.George: Yeah?(He leans to kiss her neck)Meredith: Yeah.George: Cause I could ah...I could do it again. I like doing it.Meredith: No it's...George: I could do it until you...Meredith (forces a smile): No it's okay. I'm fine.George: Yeah?(he leans into kiss her)Meredith: Ow.George: Oh sorry.Meredith: You're in my hair. Okay.George: Sorry.Meredith: It's okay. Yeah. ThereGeorge: Right there?(Time seems to have moved forward and they actual seem to be in the throes)George: Meredith. Meredith.(George collapses on her)Meredith (tears in her voice): Oh George.(He props himself up)George: Meredith? (Meredith starts crying really badly) What's wrong?Meredith: Oh, oh, oh nothing! (she shakes her head crying) Nothing is wrong. Why would you think anything is wrong?George: You're crying.Meredith (crying): Oh. It'll stop. Just ignore me.George (smiles): No. I can't. I can't ignore you.Meredith (crying): Yeah. It's fine. It's fine. Just...It's okay. Just...You're almost done, right?George (a little shocked): No.Meredith (cries out): George.George: Meredith. Meredith.(Meredith just continues on crying even more than before)Meredith: George, please.George: Sleep...Sleeping with me is really this awful for you?Meredith (crying): No George! It's not. (George moves off Meredith quickly and grabs a blanket and wraps it around himself) It's not you! (George leaves and slams the door behind him. Meredith continues on crying) George! (George is standing at the doorway now. He enters the room and grabs his shirt from the previous night off the floor. He stands up and finds Meredith standing at the doorway)Meredith: There's a suitcase in the hall.George: I was just getting my shirt.Meredith: There's a suitcase...George (interrupts): Yeah ah I don't live here anymore. (He moves to walk past her) Excuse me.(Meredith steps into the room and sits on her bed. George stops at the doorway)George: Why? I just wanna know why you ... If you didn't want to...Meredith: I didn't know I didn't want to. ... You were there and you were saying all these perfect things and I was sad. And so I thought maybe, maybe I've just been overlooking what's been in front of me. And if I just give it a chance because you're George and you're so great ... ... I didn't know I didn't want to until I knew I didn't want to.George: Yeah. (he nods) Ok.(She turns to face him)Meredith: Can we please just go back to everything the way it was?George (looks at her in disbelief): I don't know how to go back. No. I'm done. We're done.(He walks off)GVO: One way or another, our karma, will leave us to face ourselves.(Locker room)(Izzie is standing in front of a mirror ready to go home but looking very nice. She is applying lipstick)GVO: We can look our karma in the eye or we can wait for it to sneak up on us from behind.(Alex appears behind Izzie smiling also dressed to go home)Alex: You ready?Izzie: What?Alex: Aren't we...I thought we had plans for tonight.(She turns around to face him)Izzie: Oh I forgot. I'm sorry. Raincheck?Alex (a little off put): Sure.(Izzie turns back to the mirror and Alex walks away)(Keith's room post-op. Keith is lying in bed. Burke comes in)Keith: Amy ...Burke: She's not ah ... here. ... Um but you are. That's what important.Keith: She left? She really left. ... Who does that? (tears in his voice) What kind of person does that?(Burke tucks Keith in)GVO: One way or another, our karma will always find us.(Izzie walks all dressed up nice but completely casual with a large paper bag to Denny's CICU room. Denny is reading a book)Izzie (smiles broadly): Hey.Denny (smiles back): Hey yourself.(Izzie is placing a small table cloth on the table in front of Denny)Denny: Wow. (Izzie puts two plastic wine glasses on the table and fills them with apple juice) I gotta say, not exactly how I envisioned our perfect first date.Izzie: Are you kidding? Do you know how hard I've had to work to get a cute boy in bed before?(Denny smiles at her)Denny: You think I'm cute.Izzie (chuckles): Okay. Shut up and drink your juice.GVO: And the truth is as surgeons we have more chances than most to set the balance in our favor.(Outside SGH)(George is sitting on a ledge of a window of the hospital. Callie dressed to go home walks up to him)Callie: George?George: Dr. Torres.Callie (smiles): Callie. (She notices the suitcase on the ground next to him) You're going on a trip?George: It's ah...sorta.(he nods at her)Callie: Well in that case ... (she grabs out a pen from her bag and writes her number of George's hand) Give me a call when you get back in town.(George looks at her amazed and she blows gently on his hand to dry the ink. She smiles and walks away. George looks to the side and sees Dr. Burke standing at the entrance ready to go home looking at him)GVO: No matter how hard we try, we can't escape our karma. It follows us home.(Burke and Cristina's apartment)(Burke and Cristina are in bed. Cristina is rubbing lotion on her legs.)Burke: He's your friend. He needed our help.Cristina: Are his problems surgical?Burke: Mmm no.Cristina: Then technically he doesn't need our help.(Burke puts his book down and puts his glasses on his bedside table)Burke: You're a good person.Cristina: I am not.(She puts her lotion away and switches her lamp off so they're shrouded in darkness. They lie down and pull the sheets over them. Burke cuddles up close to Cristina)Burke: Goodnight.Cristina: Ah ha, goodnight.(They both close their eyes)George (calls out from the living room): Goodnight.(Both of them open their eyes)(George is lying on the couch with a blanket and everything reading a journal. He switches off the lamp next to him)GVO: I guess we can't really complain about karma. It's not unfair. It's not unexpected. It just ... evens the score.(Forest Park, Tiger Mountain Trail)(It's daybreak and Doc is eagerly running and barking along the trail. Doc stops and then barks more. Derek is slowly walking smiling behind Doc with his leash. Doc is running up to Meredith where she pats him)GVO: And even when we're about to do something we know will tempt karma to bite us in the ass ...(Derek walks up to Meredith smiling and they both turn to watch Doc run about)GVO: ... well it goes without saying ...Meredith: So.Derek: So.Meredith: Just friends.(He nods)Derek: Just friends.GVO: ...we do it anyway.2x20: Band Aid Covers the Bullet HoleOriginal Airdate: 3/12/2006Written by: Gabrielle G. Stanton & Shonda RhimesDirected by: Julie Anne Robinson(Burke and Cristina's apartment) (George is standing in front of a mirror in the bathroom. There's a pair of scissors on the table in front of him) MVO: As doctors patients are always telling us how they would do our jobs. (George picks up the scissors and starts snipping off random bits of his hair) MVO: Just stitch me up, slap a band-aid on it and send me home. (Forest Park)(Doc is barking along a walking trail) MVO: It's easy to suggest a quick solution when you don't know much about the problem. When you don't understand the underlying cause ... (Derek picks up a stick of the ground and throws it far and Doc chases after it. Meredith is walking with Derek) MVO: ... or just how deep the wound really is. Derek: So your friends ... they still mad about this very bad horrible thing you did? Meredith (smiles): The very horrible bad thing that I won't tell you about? Yes they're still upset. Derek: Well whatever it is I don't want to know. Even if I beg. Don't tell me. Meredith: Ok, I won't. Derek: Good. Ok. Although we are friends. Meredith: True, we are friends. Derek: Technically you tell friends stuff. You come to me with a problem, I give you the answer. After maybe we celebrate the moments of our lives. (Derek takes a swig of his water bottle. Meredith takes the bottle and takes a sip herself) Meredith: I will keep that in my mind next time I do a horrible thing. What about you, don't you have any problems you want to tell me about? Derek: Truthfully, at this moment in time I don't have any problems. Not a single one. (Burke and Cristina's apartment) MVO: The first step towards a real cure is to know exactly what the disease is to begin with. (Cristina walks out of the bedroom in her pj's and grabs a mug to pour some instant coffee) MVO: But that's not what people want to hear. (The front door opens and Burke and George enter looking very sweaty and tired and out of breath) Burke: Good morning! (Burke heads into the bedroom and George heads to the fridge and grabs a water bottle) George: Ah how many miles was that Dr. Burke? Burke (calls out): Five! George: Five. Five miles in 50 minutes. Nice. (Burke re-enters and George throws him a water bottle) Burke: We can get it closer to 45. George: Pancakes? Burke: Ah, top cupboard. (George is a bit too short for the cupboard and has to jump a few times to grab the mix. Cristina stares at them strangely pouring coffee) Cristina: What's wrong with your hair? Burke: Leave the man alone. He's got issues. (He goes to the fridge and starts throwing George some ingredients) And if he wants to cut his hair to get over those issues that's his business. His thing. George: It's my thing. (to Burke) Coffee? (Cristina holds up the instant coffee she has but they don't notice) Burke: Oh cappuccino. George: Ooh excellent. Cappuccino. (George starts prepping the coffee maker to make a cappuccino while Cristina looks a little off-put by the whole situation) MVO: We're supposed to forget the past that landed us here, ignore the future complications that might arise and go for the quick fix. (Seattle Scenes) (SGH)(Bailey is actually dressed for work but still carrying her baby. George is walking beside her up some stairs with Cristina, Meredith and Izzie lagging behind) Izzie: What happened to George's hair? Is he having a nervous breakdown? Cristina: Burke says he's got issues. Uh you should see them together. Like doing things, like running ... and cooking and talking. They're like bonding. Izzie: And you're afraid that Burke will realize he makes a better girlfriend than you? (Cristina doesn't answer. Izzie nods) Cristina: You know Meredith just go and apologize to him. Meredith: I've tried! Izzie: Try again. Things can't stay like this. They suck like this. (They're now walking a hallway and Alex runs up to catch up with them) Alex: What's up with O'Malley's hair? He looks like a hobbit. Izzie: He's just trying a new look. Alex: You never called me back last night. You avoiding me? Izzie: Why would I be avoiding you? (Denny's patient room. Izzie, George, Meredith, Cristina, Alex and Burke are in there) Izzie: Denny Duquette. Age 36. Denny: 37 in 3 weeks. Izzie (smiles): 37 in 3 weeks. He's having difficulty breathing and chest pains. Burke: Breath sounds? Izzie: Still a little junky. He has a build up fluid in his system. Denny: Hey did you just call me a junkie? (Izzie tries not to smile shaking her head) That's not very nice. Burke: Denny, you're congestive heart failure is getting worse despite the meds. (Denny nods) Denny: Alright so how do we proceed? Burke: Doctors how do we proceed? (Izzie moves to answer but Alex beats her to it) Alex: Titrate up his nitrate drip and continue with diuretics plus- Izzie (interrupts): ACE-inhibitors, Beta-blockers and start dobutamine. Burke: I also want his ins and outs recorded and one of you monitoring him at all times. Izzie (immediately puts up her hand): I'll stay. Alex: Me too. (He pushes past the others to stand next to Izzie. Izzie and Denny look a little off-put) (Addison is walking down a hallway followed by Bailey, her baby, George, Meredith and Cristina. They enter a patient's room. Mrs. Gibson is a thirty year old or so pregnant woman lying in bed. Her husband is sitting by her bedside) Addison: Mr. and Mrs. Gibson, I'm Dr. Montgomery-Shepherd. I'll be covering for Doctor Pollack. (Mr. Gibson looks at Addison taken-aback at her) Meredith: Mrs. Gibson had a pre-term premature rupture of her membranes at 28 weeks. Cristina: She's confined to supervised bed rest for 7 weeks and has a low grade fever. (Mr. Gibson looks at Addison kind of like he's enamored with her) Mrs. Gibson: Can't you just schedule a C? Believe me, I'm ready to have this baby. Mr. Gibson: Hey you and me both. (He chuckles and Mrs. Gibson shoots him a look) Addison: I want to get your blood work back before we make any further decisions. Mrs. Gibson: I have to pee. Again. (She sits up more and Mr. Gibson stands up to her help her get out of bed) Mr. Gibson: Come on, here we go. (Mrs. Gibson goes to the bathroom) Mr. Gibson: I appreciate you taking over my wife's case uh, uh Dr. Pollack says you're the best. Addison: Oh it's my pleasure Mr. Gibson. Mr. Gibson: He didn't mention that ah- wow you bear a striking resemblance to a young Catherine Deneuve. (Addison looks a little surprised) Oh you've, you've never heard that before? (The others in the room look a little confused and amused as well.) Addison: Uh, eh no. Sorry I, I have to say it's a first. Bailey (quietly): Been told I look like Halle Berry. Mr. Gibson: Ah beautiful. Beautiful. Well Miss Deneuve. (Addison pagers goes off and she checks it) Of course you are too but by extension. Addison (a little uncomfortable): Right, we'll be back um in later to check on your wife. (She heads out) Mr. Gibson: Look forward to it! (The others follow her) (Group is walking down a hallway. Bailey's pager goes off and her baby is crying) Bailey: Uh ER needs a consult. Addison: Uh O'Malley, Grey why don't you go and take that? Meredith: What about Mrs. Gibson? Addison: I'll take care of Mrs. Gibson. (Meredith starts walking away) George: Uh they really need both us? Addison: I'll guess you'll find out. Go! (George walks off and they continue walking down the hallway. Richard notices them a few feet away) Addison: Are you taking him to the nursery? Bailey: Ah it's full and Tucker's out of town until tomorrow. (Richard walks up to them) Richard: You brought your baby to work? (Addison takes Will from Bailey and tries to calm him down) Bailey: Uh yes Chief. Richard: You're not going to take him into surgery with you? Bailey: Uh, uh I don't have anything scheduled for today. Richard: Yet. Bailey: Ok I can't solve a problem until there's a problem to solve. Are you saying there's a problem? Addison: Yeah, is there a problem Richard? Richard: No. (Richard walks off) (Meredith and George are waiting for an elevator. George is reading his book intently while Meredith just looks at him) Meredith: You know at some point you are going to have to talk to me. (George starts walking away) George: I'm gonna take the stairs. (Meredith looks upset and gets on the elevator) (Meredith enters the Pit. She walks up to an ER doctor) Meredith: You paged? Doctor: Yeah just got a new patient. Looks surgical. Maybe neuro. (She pulls open a curtain to reveal a relatively young black couple sitting on a bed together. They're names are Sylvia and Kyle Booker. Meredith looks down and notices the ice-pack on Kyle's groin) Meredith: Doesn't look neuro to me. Doctor: Not him. Kyle: Oh no I'm fine. It's my wife. Sylvia: This is so embarrassing but we didn't know what else to do. (She turns her head slightly to reveal a fork largely embedded in her neck) Meredith: Oh. (Derek has now joined them and is checking the bandages around Sylvia's neck) Kyle: We were at the Hotel Monaco having brunch. I...we had some mimosas...Sylvia (interrupts): Uh can we just skip that part. Can we pull this out and just go...I'm fine really. Kyle: Sylvia was giving me some special attention. Under the table. (Derek looks up at this) Sylvia (embarrassed): Oh dear lord. Derek: Oh! Ok. (Meredith tries not to laugh but smiles broadly) Kyle: Sweetie, they're doctors. They've heard it all. Derek: Yes, we have. Meredith: Absolutely. (Derek grins at Meredith but the Bookers can't see. Meredith shoots him a look trying not to smile) Sylvia: While I was down there something happened. It was like a shock went through my body. Kyle: And she clenched. Derek: Clenched? (Sylvia nods) Sylvia: My jaw. It just shut. Kyle: And I panicked. Derek: Oh yeah. (Derek makes a look pain at Meredith and Meredith nods back) Kyle: And I grabbed a fork off the table and it was just instinctual. Sylvia: It doesn't hurt that much. We just didn't want to pull it out cause it's in there pretty good. Meredith: No you did the right thing. Pulling it out could cause more damage. Derek: You know I wanna do an x-ray. I wanna make sure there is no nerve or major blood vessels being comprised. (Kyle kisses Sylvia on the cheek and she nods) Now Mr. Booker did you get your injury um, you know, checked? Kyle: Oh Doctors say I'm fine. It's just some bruising. (Derek nods) Derek: Good. Ok. I wanna find out what's causing the clenching. (Kyle looks at his wife while she nods at Derek) Now do you have a history of seizures? Sylvia: No, nothing like that. Kyle: It may...It may have something to do with her brain aneurysm. Sylvia: Kyle! Kyle: What? Sylvia: I don't want to do this now. (Derek shoots Meredith a look and looks down at the chart. Meredith shakes her head) Meredith: No it's not on there. Sylvia: Can't we just take this fork out and go? Derek: No. Kyle: She was diagnosed about 6 weeks ago. Derek: And your doctor didn't recommend surgery? Sylvia: All the surgeons have said it's inoperable. Derek: Hmm. Sylvia: That's why Kyle and I are hear in Seattle. The Space Needle. I've always wanted to see it. Kyle (smiles at his wife): We wanted to see it together. Derek (softly to Meredith): Do an MRI. (He walks around her) It was good to see you today. (Meredith smiles) (Pit ambulance area where Bailey is standing holding her baby who is crying loudly, outside an ambulance. Ray the paramedic is wheeling out a guy stretched out on a gurney. The ambulance is still wailing loudly although parked) Bailey (yells): What do we got? Ray: Tachycardic in the 140s. Systolic is in the 60s. Last was 72 over 40. (He wheels the guy into the hospital and Bailey moves around to the corner to talk to another paramedic) Bailey: Can you turn that off? Turn that off! Paramedic: Ok! (Cristina comes up to her) Cristina: Dr. Bailey. (The ambulance stops wailing and Bailey quickly turns around to face Cristina) Bailey: Here, take him. (She starts remove Will from herself) Cristina: Uh what? Bailey: You're going to watch him. Cristina: No, no, no. You don't want me to do that. I can... Bailey: Yang I have a patient! I need to operate on that patient right now! Take him! Cristina: Page the Chief! Bailey: No I'm not paging anyone. I'm a surgeon. I'm going to do the surgery. Cris...I ... I need you to help me Cristina. (She hands Will over to Cristina who looks horrified) Cristina (speechless): I...I ... (Bailey also hands her Will's baby bag and Will starts to cry loudly) Bailey: Take him. Watch from the gallery! You both can. (She rushes off into the hospital leaving Cristina holding a very upset little baby and kinda unsure what to do. She heads into the hospital) (George is rifling through a filing cabinet in the Pit. He notices Callie standing a few feet away looking at a computer. She suddenly notices him and then looks away quickly. George walks up to her as Callie moves off) George: Hey. Callie: Hey. (She turns back to him) You didn't call me. George (nods): I did. I did. A few times. I just hung up every time. Callie: Nice. Very stalker like. (George nods) Goes with the hair. George: I just thought it would look good a little shorter. Callie (smiles): It is shorter. ... I make you nervous don't I? George (nods): Yeah a little. Callie: That's good. George: Yeah, that's what? (Callie laughs) Callie: Hey are you busy? George: No. Callie: You wanna see something really cool? (Area in the Pit where a young guy named Heath Mercer is sitting on a bed with his hand on an icepack. One of his fingers is extremely bent and obviously broken and looks like it has lost all circulation of blood to it by being quite blue. Callie and George are examining it closely) George: Whoa. Callie: Excellent, right? George: Yeah it is. How'd you do that? Heath: After hockey practice this morning. I didn't have my glove on cause I was getting a drink from the goalie's water bottle and the next thing I know this ass-head crashes into the net, my hand gets tangled in the mesh and I start hearing pops. (Callie places a film onto a viewing board near the bed) Heath: Big pops. Callie: Dr. O'Malley, what do you see? George (moves to look at the screen): Oh dislocation of the PIP joint and multiple fractures. (He moves back to Heath) That must really hurt. Heath: It's just a finger. Last season I took a puck to the face; broke two teeth. (Heath smiles) George (raises his eyebrows): Oh yeah. Callie: Ortho's love hockey season. It's like Christmas everyday. Heath: Can we just like put it on a splint or something? I've got a really big game this afternoon. (Callie and George exchange kinda shocked looks) (Trauma room where Sylvia is now lying on a bed that's been half propped up to remove the fork from her neck. Meredith is checking the wound while Sylvia's husband Kyle sits on a chair in front of Sylvia. A nurse is also in there helping set up) Sylvia: Um, do you know what you're doing? I mean have you ever done this before? Meredith (smiles): Have I ever pulled a fork out of somebody's neck? (Kyle chuckles) Sylvia: Mmm great. Ok. Yeah let's just do it. (to Kyle) Honey? Kyle: Mmm? Sylvia: Talk to me. Kyle: Ok. Sylvia: Distract me. Kyle: Ok. Think about Paris. Sylvia: Ok. Kyle: And the food and the wine. Sylvia (smiling): Uh huh. Kyle: And the long walks we'll take together and the Champs de what? Sylvia: The Champs d'Elys?es. (Meredith yanks the fork out) Kyle: More food. Sylvia: Yes. Kyle: More wine. Meredith: Ok. Sylvia: That's it? (Meredith nods) Oh my god, I didn't even feel anything. You're amazing. (Meredith half smiles) She's amazing. Kyle (to Meredith): So how much do you know about this Dr. Shepherd? Sylvia (warningly): Kyle. No. I do not want another MRI. I want to go to Paris. Kyle: I made a few calls. He has an incredible reputation. Sylvia: Please Kyle. Let's just live our lives. (Meredith is sewing up Sylvia's wound while Kyle looks upset) I wanna go crazy. I wanna crawl underneath the table. I wanna go to Paris while we still can. Meredith: Dr. Shepherd is an extraordinary surgeon. If he thinks he can help a second opinion couldn't hurt, could it? Sylvia: There won't be a second opinion. It'll be a fourth opinion. And when Dr. Shepherd says there's nothing more that he can do, we'll be devastated all over again. I just wanna spend what little time we have left in Paris. Kyle: So do I. But I don't want to go to Paris and wonder if we should've listened to the amazing girl who took a fork out of your neck. (Sylvia just shakes her head at Kyle and begins to chuckle. Kyle chuckles too and Meredith is smiling as well) (Denny's room where Denny is lying in bed and Alex is checking his monitors and writing in his chart) Denny: You're not Izzie. Alex: Sorry to disappoint you. Denny: Not disappointed, just saying. W-here is she? Alex: Well she's busy with other patients. (He smirks at Denny) I'm afraid you'll have to make do with me. Denny: Look man I'm sure you're, I'm sure you're a fine doctor just, just not as much my type. No offense. Alex: Yeah well I'll just have to settle on being Izzie's type. Denny: So you ... you two ... Alex: Yeah. Yeah. (he nods looking awfully pleased with himself) Pretty much you know. Denny: Congratulations. (Fairly empty gallery where Cristina is changing Bailey's baby's diaper on the floor) Cristina (singing): A, b, c, d. (stops singing and removes the diaper) Oh, gross. (Starts singing again) E, f, g, this really couldn't suck any worse. Richard: (appears in the door way): Dr. Yang. Cristina: Oh ah, Dr. Webber. Richard: What's that smell? Cristina: Uh...it's feces, it's baby feces. We've had an incident, sir. Richard: Are you having trouble with the diaper, Yang? Cristina: Sir. No, sir. Richard: Because it looks like you're having trouble with the diaper. Cristina: No, sir, I've got a ... I've got a MD from Stanford and a PhD from Berkley I can handle this diaper. (suddenly looks at Richard pleadingly) Unless you want to? Richard (uncomfortable): Uh...n...no, no. It's alright, it's alright, you carry on. Carry on. (Richard walks away) (Meredith is pushing Sylvia sitting in a wheelchair down a hallway) Sylvia: Can we stop for a moment please? Meredith: Sure. (Meredith stops the wheelchair) Sylvia: I can walk. Meredith: Oh, ok. (Sylvia stands up) The wheelchair is just protocol. Sylvia: Yeah well I'm way past caring about protocol. I just wanna feel my body move while I can. (They start walking down the hall again with Meredith pushing the empty wheelchair) Meredith: You seem incredibly ok with your prognosis. Sylvia (nods): More than ok. I'm a little in love with my prognosis. Woke me up. Woke my marriage up. Been sleepwalking about 15 years and now I am wide awake. I'm having this MRI for Kyle. He's not ready to let go. But me and my aneurysm ... (she nods) we're good friends. (Derek is in the MRI scan viewing room looking over Sylvia's scans. Addison walks in) Addison: Hey, I've been looking for you. Derek: Hey. (he points to the screen in front of him) Look. Look at the size of this aneurysm. Addison: Yeah it's big. Derek: It's huge. Addison: You're going to try to operate? Derek: Well I'm definitely intrigued. Addison: You know who Catherine Deneuve is? Derek: Hmmm ... yeah actress. French. Hot. (He starts taking notes on the MRI) Addison: One of my patients...her husband actually uh said I looked like her. (They both kinda chuckle but Derek isn't really paying attention and more focused on the MRI) Derek: Isn't she blonde? Addison: Yeah ... I guess. I dunno...I...I dunno. Anyways so ... ok, you're busy. Derek (still staring at the screen): Bye. (She walks out of the room) (Denny's CICU room where Denny is sitting up right in his bed and Izzie is sitting on the edge of his bed. They have the moveable table separating them with a game of scrabble open) Denny: I'm not just another pretty face you know. (he taps his head) I've got it going on up here as well. Izzie: So you keep telling me. Denny: Yep. I probably know hundreds of words. Izzie: Really? Hundreds. Wow you're a real brain trust. Denny: Ouch. Izzie: Oh I'm highly competitive. (She moves her scrabble pieces onto the board) Screw. S-C-R-E-W. That's 25 points thank you very much. Denny: Wait a second, now you didn't tell me we were playing naughty word scrabble. Izzie (laughs): We're not playing naughty word scrabble, you just have a dirty mind. Denny: Oh, it's filthy but you're the one that put down screw. Izzie: I was referring to hardware, not sex. (She picks up some more pieces) Denny: Oh. I guess maybe sometimes it's ah; it's hard to tell where you're...where you're coming from. (Izzie looks at him confused) Izzie: What do you mean? Denny: Alex ah ... he may have said something about you guys um being together. Izzie (kinda avoiding eye-contact): Uh well ... he had no business telling you that and besides it's not even true so ... Denny: So you're not together? Izzie: No. I mean yeah a little but not really so ... no. (Denny nods) Denny (sarcastic): Ok ... well sweet. Thanks, (chuckles) thanks for clearing that up. (They kinda smile at each other but then Denny has serious trouble breathing) Izzie: Denny what is it? (Denny just gasps for air) Don't, don't panic! Just try to breathe! (She moves quickly to the door) Izzie: Page Dr. Burke! (Denny's is seriously getting worse and Izzie runs up to him and places an oxygen mask over him) Izzie: Just try to breathe! Just breathe! Just breathe! Take it easy! (Denny just gasps for breath into the mask) (Denny is now lying on his bed breathing slowly but seems to be okay. Izzie and Dr. Burke are standing near his bedside) Izzie: He had flash-pulmonary edema. I switched him to nesiritide, started him on milrinone and put him on BiPAP. Burke: That's a good call Stevens. Denny (slight breathing difficulty): Good call. Bad news right? Burke: It's not good. The fact is Denny, you need a new heart and you're running out of time. Denny: Ok, so what's behind door number 2? Burke: I would like to install a left-ventricular assist device. It's a battery operated machine to help your heart pump. Denny: Battery-operated. (he smiles) I knew it. You people are trying to turn me into a robot. (Burke and Izzie chuckle) It's all part of your evil plan to take over the hospital. Izzie: It's a bridge to transplant Denny. It'll keep you alive while we wait for your new heart. Denny: Yeah that easy, huh? (to Burke) No catch? Burke: There are some risks. Increased damage to your platelets, increased bleeding and if you do choose the assist device, you may not be able to leave the hospital until you get a donor heart. Denny: Phew... (raises his eyebrows) yeah ... any other options? (Burke and Izzie remain silent) I'm gonna need time to think. Burke: Don't take too long Denny. (Burke leaves the room) (On-call room where Izzie is standing pacing. Alex walks in and whistles closing the door behind him) Alex: Always happy to get this page. (He starts to remove his shirt) Izzie: Stop. That's not why I paged you. Alex: What you paged me to the on-call room to talk? Izzie: No I paged you to the on-call room to yell. Why the hell did you talk to Denny about us? You had no right! Alex: Oh right because you never talk to Denny about personal... Izzie (interrupts angry): I don't talk to him about our sex life Alex! That is between us! Alex: Oh, got it! So none of your friends know that we're sleeping together? Izzie: I'm sorry are you saying that you and Denny are friends now? Alex: No I don't become friends with my patients Iz! Izzie (yells): You're an ass! You feel threatened by him! That is why you did that! There is no other reason! Alex: You're his doctor Izzie! And he's your half-dead, possibly soon to be all-dead patient! How can I possibly be threatened by that guy? Izzie: I can't believe you just said that. (She moves to walk past him but he puts his arm up to stop her) Alex: Someone's got too. (He removes his arm and Izzie walks to the door opening it and slams it closed behind her) (Trauma room where Heath is now sitting on an exam table getting his hand bandaged up by Callie. George is standing near them. Mrs. Mercer, Heath's mom is also in the room) Callie: I'll schedule the surgery for your son. In the meantime I'm sending Heath home today with a prescription for hydrocodone to control the pain. Heath: Look I...I get this is a bad break but it doesn't hurt that much. I'm telling you I can handle this! So here's what I'm thinking, we take this off; we put a small splint on my fingers so I can jam it into the glove. I play today and then I'm all yours! (Callie silently shakes her head in disbelief and humor) Mrs. Mercer: You're not playing today. There's no playing today! George: Heath, you're mom's right. Mrs. Mercer: Thank you. Did you hear that? I'm right. (to George) You're mother must be very proud of you. (Heath jumps off the table angry) Heath: Scouts are coming today! College Scouts! I could get a scholarship today! Don't you get that? Callie: Heath, if I cut that bandage off, we risk doing permanent damage to your finger. (She pats him comfortingly) I'm with you man but I'm sorry there's no way we can put your finger into a glove today. Heath: There must be something you can do. I need to play this afternoon. This game ... it's what I've been training for my entire life. This is my chance to go to college. This is my whole future. Mrs. Mercer: Oh honey, you can go to community college and get your grades up... (Heath storms out of the room angrily) Mrs. Mercer: I'm sorry. (she shakes her head) I'm sorry. (She leaves the room) Callie: Oh (she sighs) sucks. George: Yeah. (Outdoor cafeteria where Addison is eating lunch by herself at one of the tables reading a magazine. Mr. Gibson walks up to her with his own lunch tray) Mr. Gibson: Oh, Dr. Montgomery-Shepherd. (he points to papers on the table) Are those my wife's test results there? Addison: Yes, they are actually. There's no infection. (Mr. Gibson just appears to stare at Addison) Everything looks good. I'm scheduling a C-section this afternoon. I was actually going to go up after lunch and tell her. (Addison goes back to reading her magazine but realizes that Mr. Gibson is still staring at her and puts down the magazine) Addison: Mr. Gibson... Mr. Gibson (interrupts): You know you really do look like Catherine Deneuve. Addison: I'm talking about your wife. Giving birth to your baby. Mr. Gibson: I know. I know. I'm sorry. May I? (he sits down at the table) Listen I don't mean to focus on your looks. I mean you seem very kind, very intelligent; obviously you're a doctor. I don't mean to objectify or harass you in any way ... (he groans) I'm usually not this awkward but you're just so extraordinarily beautiful. (Addison chuckles obviously flattered) I understand if a beautiful, intelligent woman like you doesn't want to eat with me. So uh ... well, anyway ... (He moves to get up) Addison: No, no. Mr. Gibson: Really? Addison: Yes, stay. It's fine. Mr. Gibson: Ok. All right. Addison: You're gonna eat that pudding? (She grabs his pudding from his tray) (Nearby table where Cristina, Izzie, George are all sitting at table together eating lunch. Cristina still has Bailey's baby in her arms and looks very harassed) Cristina (hisses): Take him! Izzie: No. Bailey gave him to you. Cristina: She's only gonna be in surgery for another half an hour. Hour tops. Take him. Take him. Izzie: You're a liar. And you also smell like vomit. George: Really? Cause I just think it smells like poo. Cristina: Okay this is why some species eat their young. Izzie (to George): Have you talk to Meredith yet? George: Tomorrow ah I'm gonna buy a T-shirt that says 'Stop asking me about Meredith' and I'm gonna wear it everyday until people stop asking me about Meredith! (Meredith walks into the cafeteria and Cristina notices) Cristina: Shh, at least they won't be asking you about your hair! (Meredith sits down at the table next to George. George gets up immediately and leaves) Izzie: Uh! Come on. (to Meredith) Meredith, stop him! (George sits down with Callie at any empty table) Meredith: What should I do? Knock him down? Cristina: Do you know that he cut his hair over my bathroom sink this morning? Meredith: George is a good roommate. If you tell him what's annoying you, he will stop. Cristina: No he's not my...he's not my...See this is why I shouldn't have given up my place. Izzie: He would still be our roommate if Meredith would just apologize. Meredith: I have apologized. I've apologized sincerely. And you know what? It takes two, to make a stupid sexual decision. So, whatever. (She gets up and leaves) Izzie: Oh. I just miss when we all got along. Can't we just go back to that? (Alex comes to the table and hovers over it. Izzie gets up immediately) Izzie: Excuse me; I have to check on a patient. (She leaves and Alex throws his tray down hard on the table and sits down. Instantly Bailey's baby starts crying loudly) Cristina (glares at Alex): Awesome. Awesome! Thanks Alex. Thank you! (She starts getting up) Oh yeah. Ok. (Rocking the baby) Shut it. Shut it. Shut it. (Open hallway in front of the big wall of windows. Meredith and Derek are standing eating lunch together. Meredith is facing the window and Derek is facing the opposite direction) Meredith: They have no right to be mad at me! It's none of their business. Derek: I agree. Meredith: You can't agree. You don't even know what I'm talking about. Derek: You're talking about being mad at your friends for being mad at you. Meredith: I hate them. I do. Derek (leans in close): What the hell did you do? Meredith (chuckles): I'm not telling you. Derek: Oh you know as a friend, you suck. (Derek stands up weirded out when he notices across on the other side of the hospital Addison laughing with Mr. Gibson outside the elevators. Meredith notices his look and follows his gaze. He turns back around to face the window) Meredith: Does Addison know we're friends? (He doesn't answer and continues to chew on his sandwich) Derek: Did you get Sylvia Booker's blood work back yet? (Meredith stares at him a bit) Meredith: I'm going right now. (She leaves) (Gallery overlooking the OR where Bailey is performing surgery. Cristina is holding a very antsy baby Will who is crying loudly. She uses Will's foot to press the intercom button that allows you to communicate to the OR) Cristina (desperate): Dr. Bailey! Bailey (focused on the surgery): What is it Yang? Cristina: Uh. He's crying. Bailey: Let me hear him. (Will however cries loudly over Bailey's voice) Cristina: What? Bailey: Let me hear the baby cry. (Cristina holds up Will to the intercom who cries loudly) Bailey: That's cry number 4. You need to feed him. (Cristina pulls Will away from the intercom) Cristina: Oh god. Oh. (Small waiting room where Sylvia and Kyle are sitting down together on some seats. Derek is standing across from them and Meredith is standing a few feet from Derek) Sylvia: A double-barrel what? Meredith: The double-barrel brain by-pass. Derek: I'm gonna use two scalp arteries to re-direct the blood flow in your brain around the aneurysm. (He sits down across from them) Kyle: How come no one else has mentioned this? Derek: Well it's a surgery that's been performed less than a dozen times. I have performed one successfully and I've watched one. I don't want to understate the risks. (Sylvia doesn't seem very happy at this news) Kyle: Risks? Derek: Mmm hmm. The risks are that the aneurysm could rupture on the table. Kyle: But you think there's a chance. A chance that it could work. Sylvia: No. Hell no. I'm leaving. And we're going to Europe. We've always wanted to see it. We've never had the time. This is the time. We're going. That's it. (Derek seems a little taken-aback at this news) (Derek is walking to a nurses' station. Kyle walks up to him anxiously) Kyle: Dr. Shepherd? Can I get a word? Derek: Yes. Kyle: Um, I'm sorry if my wife offended you. Derek: Oh no. No offense at all. Kyle: Oh. I didn't notice her. Derek: I'm sorry? Kyle: For 15 years I didn't notice her. When we got married she was everything and sometime, somewhere along the way I stopped noticing her, I stopped seeing her and since she's been sick she's all I've seen. And I hate that's what it took, I hate it and I'm sorry. But I love her. And I don't want her...I don't want my wife to die. Please talk to her. (Derek nods) Dr. Shepherd, please. Derek (smiles ruefully): Ok. (Derek walks away) (Nurses' station where Addison is filling in a patient's chart. Bailey comes up to the nurses' station) Addison: I had a lunch date with my patient's husband today. He paid attention to me Miranda. For a whole half hour. (Bailey gives her a look) Bailey: Addison, you're not gonna fix the problem with your husband by having meals with someone else's. Addison: Mmm. (Addison walks away) Bailey: I mean it! (Nurses' station where Cristina is sitting down, unsuccessful attempting to feed Bailey's baby with a bottle. Will is just crying loudly) Cristina: Oh please eat. Eat. I'm begging you to eat! Yummy food. Yummy! Bailey. Breast...milk. Food. Come on! (Burke comes up behind Cristina holding a cup coffee looking highly amused) Burke: Well look at you. (Cristina gives Burke an annoyed look) Cristina: You find this amusing. Burke: And you don't? Cristina: Come on...you know what? I can't help you. I can't help you. I can not help you if you do not want to eat. (George walks by and notices Cristina's struggle and walks up to them) If you're gonna keep on crying, then eat. (George takes Will from Cristina and the bottle. Will instantly stops crying and instantly successful Will to feed from the bottle) Burke: O'Malley, you're a natural. You have nieces and nephews? (Cristina just looks on amazed) George: No sir, babies just like me. Burke (looks at Cristina): Oh speaks to a good bedside manner. (She just glares back. Burke pats George on the shoulder) Keep it up. George: Thanks sir. (Burke walks off and Callie walks up to George) Callie: Hey, is that Bailey's baby? George: Yeah. Callie: Oh, oh he's so cute. (Cristina just tiredly rubs her forehead. Callie leans in close to George) Oh hi there. ... So I scheduled the Mercer kid's surgery for tomorrow afternoon, I assume you want in? (Cristina jumps up eagerly) Cristina: No, no I want in the surgery. Any surgery. I'll do it. Callie: Who are you? Cristina: I'm Cristina. Callie: Sorry, I only need one. George: Oh well absolutely, I'm in. (Cristina sits down dejected) Callie: Ok. Oh and George? George: Hmm? Callie: This is the last invitation I'm extending, (Cristina looks up at this) so the ball's in your court. (Callie walks away) George: Ok. Callie (calls back): Ok. Cristina: Seriously? George: Seriously. Cristina: Nice. Think she has a couch you can sleep on? (Outside emergency entrance of the hospital where Sylvia is standing looking impatient. Derek walks outside and up to her) Derek: Mrs. Booker. Sylvia: I'm waiting for my husband. He's bringing the car. Derek: Mrs. Booker, I know you're worried about the surgery. Sylvia: No, I'm not. I'm not worried about it, because I'm not having it. Derek: You're not having the surgery because of the medical risks. Sylvia: No, I'm not having it because, because for the first time in 12 years I have a great marriage and I have a life. And I wanna live it. Derek: You, you have weeks. If this surgery is successful, you're looking at decades. Sylvia (shakes her head): I don't think you understand. I'm not crazy and I don't wanna die but I don't wanna go back to being Kyle's bed warmer in a full-length flannel nightgown. (Derek nods) Can you understand that? Derek: I understand that you're tired of settling, so don't. Fight. Fight for your life. Fight for your marriage. Let me operate. And make a decision right now that you'll never settle again. (Sylvia contemplates this) (Izzie is sitting in Denny's room watching over him looking very worried. He's just lying in bed breathing into an oxygen mask looking very sickly. He looks over at her and removes the mask) Izzie (anxious): The LVAD will inhibit organ deterioration. It will allow you to get off most of the meds that you're on and it'll give your heart a much needed rest. (Denny smiles at her concern) Denny (softly): Izzie, I'm just ... I'm just so tired. Izzie: I appreciate that but the LVAD also has increased survival rates over conventional therapies. And I think that you need... Denny (interrupts still soft spoken): Hey. Hey. ... Having this surgery ... it means I don't get to leave here. And you know how much I hate hospitals. Izzie (nods): I do know. But as your doctor I can't support you making any other decision. (Denny smiles) The surgery will allow you more time and we need more time. Denny: We? Izzie: We uh your doctors, need more time. ... ... And we need more time. Denny: So, you'll be here? Izzie: Everyday. Denny: And as an added bonus, it'll really piss off Alex. (Izzie half laughs) Izzie: Yes, that it will. Denny: Ok. Izzie: Ok? Denny (nods): Ok. Izzie (smiles relieved): Ok. Ok. (She helps Denny place the oxygen mask back on) (Emergency entrance of the hospital where Heath walks in smiling holding a bloody rag over his hand. George nearby notices him & walks up to him) George: Heath, hi. Heath: Hey. Told you I couldn't miss my game and I didn't. I made 2 goals and 1 assist and there were scouts there! (George notices the bloody rag) George: What did you do? Heath: I cut off my finger. (George looks up shocked) It's ok. I saved it so you guys can sew it back on. (He holds up an ice-cooler in his other hand. George stares at him still thoroughly shocked and opens up the ice-cooler. There in a large batch of ice lies Heath's cut off finger. George nods at him still amazed and Heath nods back smiling happily) (OR where Callie is operating on Heath's finger. George is in there helping) Callie: Tissue infection in here. Not good. George: He said he found out how to do it on the internet. Who puts up Web pages on how to cut off your own finger? Callie: Well he's got a passion and he sacrificed for it. You gotta respect that. George (amazed): No ... you don't. (to scrub nurse) Thank you Bokie. (back to Callie) He cut off his own finger. A finger... (he moves out of Callie's way) sorry...that would've healed perfectly in a few months. (he clamps down on the finger) I got it. Callie: Sometimes you can't wait. Just want the pain to stop. So you cut it off. The problem and the pain. George (shakes his head): That doesn't and the pain no. I mean if it's that painful...(he accepts another instrument from the scrubs nurse) Thank you- (back to Callie) to start with, even if you cut it off there's always gonna be that phantom pain. Callie (stares at him): Your ex did a real number on you, huh. (George looks a little taken aback) (Hallway where Sylvia prepped for the OR is lying on a hospital bed being wheeled down the hallway. Meredith and two other interns are pushing the bed with Kyle also walking bedside the bed) Sylvia: You're quitting your job. Kyle: Oh absolutely. Sylvia: And we're selling the house. Kyle: Mmm hmm. Sylvia: And we're moving to Paris and we're spending that nest egg now. Kyle: Yeah. Sylvia: Promise? Kyle: I promise. Sylvia: Baby? Kyle: Yeah. Sylvia: If I die, promise me you'll do it anyway. Kyle: I promise. (Meredith pushes a button to open the double doors that are coming up and she turns to Kyle) Meredith: I'm sorry, this is far as you can go. (Kyle looks a little distraught and moves up close to Sylvia) Kyle: Sylvia, please don't die. Sylvia: I'll do my best. (He leans and they kiss) (Kyle is left standing watching as they wheel Sylvia away) (On-call room where Cristina is lying asleep holding Will who is also asleep on the bottom bunk-bed. Bailey comes in and gently removes Cristina's arm holding Will and leans in to take him. Cristina wakes groggy) Cristina (groggy): I fed him. Oh god there's poop everywhere. Wait.(Bailey scoops up Will into her arms and Cristina sits up startled and more awake) Bailey: Go back to sleep Cristina. (Bailey bends down to grab a bag filled with Will's baby things near the doorway and Cristina takes the opportunity to speak) Cristina: I know you're the boss of me and you could destroy my career and make my life a living hell and torture and pain and all that but just in the future (she looks earnestly at Bailey) I don't baby sit! Bailey: Fine. (She leaves and closes the door behind her) (OR where Addison is performing a C-Section on Mrs. Gibson with an OR team. She takes out the crying baby and hands the baby to George who is also there) (OR where Burke is performing surgery on Denny with an OR team. Izzie is there to standing and watching) Izzie: I read that a patient's heart can sometimes remodel itself and they can be weaned off the LVAD. Burke: It's not likely in Denny's case. His heart is too weak. (Scrub room where Addison is putting back on her wedding ring and engagement ring looking contemplative) (Addison is walking down a hallway. She stops and looks into a picture frame, using the glass as a guide to fix and check her hair. She moves and stands in front of Mrs. Gibson's room. The Gibson's are both cooing over their baby girl) Addison: I just wanted to make sure everybody was doing ok. Mrs. Gibson (staring at her baby girl): Everything's fine. (Mr. Gibson doesn't even look up just cooing over his daughter) Mrs. Gibson: Thank you so much. (Addison smiles but realizes that Mr. Gibson isn't really going to pay attention to her) Mr. Gibson (looks up briefly): Oh yeah right. Thanks. Thank you. (He looks back down at his daughter) (Addison walks back down the hall and shakes her head in annoyance at herself) (Post-op ward where Heath is now lying in a bed after his surgery. His hand is all bandaged and is being held up by wires. Mrs. Mercer is sitting in a chair next to his bedside. Callie is standing on the other side and George is standing a few feet away) Callie: When you put your freshly severed finger into a grungy-bacteria filled glove, you got a severe infection. (Mrs. Mercer just looks teary-eyed) Heath: What? No. The internet didn't say anything about infection. (George has moved up to stand next to Callie) George: Mrs. Mercer we didn't realize how deep the infection had gone until we were in there. There was too much tissue damage. Callie: Heath, the infection was caused by a methicillin resistant staph bacteria and it's continuing to spread. We'll be lucky if we can preserve enough muscle for you to have any hand function at all. Mrs. Mercer: What do you mean? (to George) What does she mean? George: You may never regain complete control of your hand. Heath (slightly panicked): No. That's wrong. You're wrong. Ronnie Lott played for the 49ers when he cut off his finger, he could still play. I got the directions off the internet. I... Mrs. Mercer (interrupts, stroking Heath's head): My poor baby. Heath: Mom, stop. They're lying. They're just trying to scare me. Callie: Heath. I'm sorry. I really am but ... (she shakes her head) you're hockey career is over. (Heath stares at her shocked and upset and turns to his mother) Heath: Mom. (Mrs. Mercer just strokes Heath comfortingly, crying) Mom. They're wrong, right? They have to be wrong. Mrs. Mercer: Oh sweetheart. Heath: I got the directions off the internet! (George and Callie watch on sad) (OR where Derek is operating on Sylvia with his OR team. Meredith is assisting) Meredith: Is there any evidence of vasospasm or bleeding? Derek: No, it looks good. Meredith: So, do you think they'll move to Paris? Derek: I hope so. (Gallery which is filled with people watching, including Cristina, George, Bailey with Will and Addison. Derek glances up and stares at Addison contemplatively) (Scrub room where Derek and Meredith are washing up after the surgery. The OR is pretty much packed up and cleaned) Meredith: That was amazing. Derek: It was, wasn't it? Meredith: Yeah. (Derek moves and to dry his hands) Derek (to himself): Yeah. (He walks back to stand in front of Meredith) Meredith. You know I was kidding this morning. (he smiles) I mean you can tell me about this horrible thing. Come on, you can talk to me. Meredith: As a friend? Derek: As a friend. (Meredith contemplates this, chewing on her lip. She nods a little and turns to Derek) Meredith: There's a line between friends and not-friends and if I tell you this, if I tell you this whole horrible thing then you have to react as my friend. Not my not-friend. (Derek nods slightly) Derek: I can do that. All right. You tell me what's wrong, I'll tell you how to fix it. (He smiles at her) (Meredith closes her eyes in kinda an 'ugh, I can't believe I'm doing this) Meredith: Ok. Are you ready? Derek (smiles): I'm ready. (There's a brief silence and Meredith groans slightly. She turns to face Derek again) Meredith: I slept with George. (Derek loses his smile quick fast) And, and it was a horrible mistake. (Derek looks kinda sickened but tries not to let Meredith notice) And now everything has changed. And I don't know how to repair it. (Derek nods) I don't even know where to start but I just know that I have to and .... (She trails off and looks at Derek who just looks pensive) Say something friendly. (Derek clears his throat) Derek: You tell him that. You find George and you apologize. Meredith: That's what everyone is saying but he won't listen. Derek: Make him listen. You tell him you're sorry. Just tell him again and again and again until he listens. Meredith: How do I do that? Derek (smiles at her): You do what I do. (he grins at her) Use the elevator. (Meredith smiles and Derek leaves looking kinda upset) (Derek is standing by himself in the open hallway looking out the big wall of windows) (George is walking down the hallway with his back-pack dressed to go home. He dashes for an empty elevator that is about to close and makes it in. Meredith runs in just, squeezing in before the door closes. George moves to press the open door button but Meredith presses a button to a floor to stop him) Meredith: You're trapped. ... And you don't have to talk. I'll do the talking. (George just stares up at the ceiling, avoiding eye-contact) George, I am truly very deeply, sorry. And I'm not going to make excuses (George continues staring at the ceiling) I'm just sorry. ... Look, I know you're going to get off this elevator and walk away and not look back, I know that. But George, we're friends. Real friends, and that means no matter how long it takes when you finally do decide to look back I'll still be here. (George still stares at the ceiling. The elevator stops, he gets off of it and leaves and starts walking down the hallway and doesn't look back with Meredith staring after him) MVO: As doctors, as friends, as human beings we all try to do the best we can. (Denny's room after the surgery. Izzie is sitting at his bed-side again looking upset and worried. She takes his hand in hers and strokes it comfortingly) Denny: Hey(Izzie looks up startled that he's awake and sighs) Denny: Don't you have somewhere to be? Izzie: Yeah. (She nods) Yeah I'm there. MVO: But the world is full of unexpected twists and turns. (Cristina is opening up the door to her and Burke's apartment) MVO: And just when you've gotten the lay of the land, the ground underneath you, shifts. (Cristina enters smiling and looking around for Burke. She turns the corner and loses the smile slowly when she notices Burke playing trumpet and George playing the clarinet with him. They're playing 'When the Saints Go Marching In') MVO: And knocks you off your feet. (Cristina just walks into the bedroom closing the door behind her) MVO: If you're lucky, you end up with nothing more than a flesh wound. (Derek is walking down a hallway in the hospital. He stops at a doorway and smiles. Sylvia is waking up from her surgery lying in bed with Kyle sitting at her bedside) MVO: Something a band-aid will cover. (Sylvia looks over at Kyle and he smiles at her. He takes both of his hands in hers) (Derek enters his trailer. Addison is sitting in a dressing gown on their bed reading over some papers) Derek: Hi. Addison: Hey. (He removes his jacket and makes his way to their tiny bedroom) MVO: But some wounds are deeper than they first appear and require more than just a quick fix. (Derek smiles briefly and sits on the bed. He moves and lies propped up in front of her. He looks at Addison sighing. Addison finally looks up from her magazine confused) Addison: What? Derek: I was indifferent. You know in New York before Mark. I was just (he shrugs) indifferent towards you. Addison (a little amazed): Yes. Derek: I was absent. Addison: Yes. (He nods) Derek: I'm partly to blame for what's happened to our marriage. Addison: Yeah. Derek: I'm sorry...I'm working on it. (Addison smiles softly at him. Derek nods) Addison (nods): Ok. (Derek sits up and starts removing his shoes while Addison watches him deep in thought) MVO: With some wounds, you have to rip off the band-aid, let them breathe and give them time to heal. (Meredith's house) (Meredith is lying in bed by herself just staring out the window) 2x21: SuperstitionOriginal Airdate: 3/19/2006Written by: James D. Parriott & Shonda RhimesDirected by: Tricia Brock(Seattle Scenes)MVO: My college campus has a magic statue. (SGH Fa?ade)MVO: It's a long-standing tradition for students to rub it's nose for good luck. (Doctor is writing on OR board)MVO: My freshman roommate really believed in the statue's power...(Meredith and Addison in scrub room)MVO: ...and insisted on visiting it to rub it's nose before every exam. (Meredith watches Addison take off her wedding ring and pin it to her scrubs. After pinning them on, Addison pats them for good measure.) (Burke is speaking with a nurse.) Burke: Are you sure my scrub caps weren't in the laundry delivery? Nurse: I triple-checked. Burke: You're sure?Nurse: Yeah, I'm sure. MVO: Studying might have been a better idea. She flunked out her sophomore year. But the fact is we all have little superstitious things that we do. (Derek is getting ready to start operating)Derek: All right, everybody. It's a beautiful morning to save lives. Let's have some fun. MVO: If it's not believing in magic statues, it's avoiding sidewalk cracks, or always putting out left shoe on first. (Bailey is at an operating table, she takes a few breaths before starting)Bailey: Ok. MVO: Knock on wood. Bailey: Ten blade. (Addison and Meredith's surgery)MVO: Step on a crack, break your mother's back. (A blood vessel bursts and the monitor starts beeping)(Burke's OR)Burke: Paddles. (Cristina hands him the interior heart paddles)Burke: Ten joules. (The monitor starts beeping)(Derek's OR)Anesthesiologist: He's having a reaction. I have to take him off. Derek: I'm in the middle of his brain. (Monitor starts beeping)(Bailey's OR)Bailey: We're losing him. (Monitor starts beeping)(Derek's OR. A nurse is removing his head gear, the patient has obviously died.)(Burke's OR. A nurse is removing his head gear, the patient has obviously died.)(Bailey's OR, the patient has obviously died)Bailey: Time of death...(Burke's OR)Burke: Time of death...(Derek's OR)Derek: Time of death...(Addison's OR)Addison: Call it, Grey. MVO: The last thing we want to do is offend the gods. Meredith: Time of death 8:17. (The interns are in the locker room, changing.)George: Four surgeries, four fatalities and the day has barely started. (To Cristina) Can I have a bite of that?Cristina: No. You're in my apartment, you don't get to be in my food. George: Dr. Burke gave me a protein bar, this morning. Cristina: Burke packs his lunch for him. Did I mention?Izzie: I talked to the morgue guy this morning. Meredith: The one with the unibrow?Izzie: The one with the like teeth thing. And he said that surgical fatalities come in threes and sevens. Says there'll be three more before midnight. Cristina: Well, ok then. Since "dead tooth" morgue guy said so. Izzie: He's the morgue guy. He knows things about death. (Meredith picks up something from the floor and tries to hand it to George)Meredith: You dropped this. (George doesn't take it and walks away) He's still ignoring me. Cristina: Ignore him back. Meredith: Derek says I should apologize until he listens. Cristina: Derek says?Meredith: It's good advice. He's my friend. That's good friend advice. (Alex walks up and pulls Izzie aside)Izzie: What?Alex: Did you sneak out last night?Izzie: Yeah. I, um...I couldn't sleep.(Bailey enters)Bailey: Come on.Meredith: Where?Bailey: ER. George: All of us?Bailey: We've all had deaths. Let's all go save a life. (They all begin walking through the hall, as they walk by the nurse's station Addison stops them.)Addison: Uh, Dr. Bailey. (Hands her a cup) Here you go. Bailey: What's this?Addison: Hot cocoa. It's a little ritual we had in New York. Four surgeries, four deaths, I figure we could all use a little good juju. Bailey: And cocoa equals juju how?Addison: Hey, hey, hey. Don't question the cocoa. Carry on. (They all start to walk away, Meredith is trailing behind.) Meredith. (Hands her a cup) Thank you for your help this morning. Meredith: Oh. Thank you, Addison. Addison: Yeah. Thank you. (Derek observes the exchange between Meredith and Addison. After Meredith leaves he walks up.)Addison: Here you go. (She hands him a cup)Derek: Juju. Addison: Yep. Derek: You jujued Meredith. Addison: I did. In the spirit of friendship. Derek: Hmm. Addison: What? Are we not being friends with Meredith anymore?Derek: No, no, we are. Meredith and I are friends. Addison: And you and I are married. So then, by proxy, Meredith and I are friends. Derek: That's very big of you. Addison: Yeah. Derek: You don't have to do that. It's not like I'm gonna be friends with let's say, uh...Mark. Addison: Yeah, well, neither am I. Now finish your juju before somebody else dies. Derek: Hmm. (Meredith enters a room where she throws away the cup of juju.)(Burke is walking through the hallway talking on his cell phone.)Burke: There are ten of them. Music notes. Colorful patterns. They were sent out last night. (Burke walks up to the OR board where Richard is standing)Richard: Sorry to hear about your valve replacement, this morning. Burke: The laundry misplaced my scrub caps. Richard: You know, there's some foolish talk going around about fatality clusters in threes and sevens. Burke (On phone): Look, are you sure they weren't sent to another hospital?Richard: (To Nurse who is erasing the OR board) How many electives have they canceled today?Nurse: This is our third. Richard: And what have the surgeons' been giving as their reasons?Burke (On phone): Because I prefer my own caps. Richard: You're not pushing your surgeries because you don't have your personal caps. You understand me?Burke (Looking confused): I didn't push any surgeries. (On phone) No, no. The question is: when will you find them?(Burke walks away)Richard: No one changes that board unless they talk to me. No one. (Bailey and her interns are gathered around a silent ER)Cristina: Great. No blood, no guts, no lives to save. It's dead quiet. Bailey: Did you really just say that?Izzie: Cristina...Cristina: What?George: You said the Q-word. Izzie: It's like saying Macbeth in theater. Cristina: Please. You think because someone says it's quiet that it'll mean...(ER doors open)Woman: Can somebody help us here? She's coughing up blood. Bailey: O'Malley! Take that. (Everyone's pagers start beeping)Alex: Denny Duquette. Izzie: I got it. Alex: He's my patient. Bailey: He's both your patients. Answer the call. Nurse: Two incoming. (Ambulance bay)Bailey: Ok, uh, Yang, first one's yours. Grey, take number two. Paramedic: Jesse Fannon, 32, unrestrained driver in a rear end collision. There was spider webbing on the front windshield where his head hit. BP's 120 palp. Pulse 75. Bailey: Well, what do you want to do, Yang?(Man is counting on his fingers)Cristina: Primary and secondary survey. Uh, head CT and X-ray. Bailey: Ok. Page Shepherd when you get there. Jesse: Wait! I'm counting the siren whoops. We can't go until it reaches 33. Paramedic: He also seems to have a touch of OCD.(Other ambulance)Paramedic: Nikki Ratlin, 30, erratic BP in the field. Complaining of chest and leg pain. Meredith: What happened?Nikki: I got struck by lightning. Cristina: Can anyone spell coincidence?(ER)Nikki: My horoscope said, "Stay close to home today." Aries couldn't have been any clearer. Ok, I guess it could have said, "Don't leave the house today unless you want to get struck by lightning." Ouch. Bailey: See, Ms. Ratlin, you have no sign of wounds from lightning. Nikki: It was a sign. Clearly getting struck by lightning is a sign. I sign that I shouldn't have left my house. Meredith: Nikki, normally people struck by lightning have a wound where the bolt entered and exited the body. Nikki: Well...well, I wasn't struck struck. The tree was struck and it fell on me.Meredith: A tree fell on you?Nikki: A big, like, branch or limb, Whatever. Same difference. (Bailey scribbles on the paper that she had been writing on and crumbles it up.)Bailey: No, actually, medically, it isn't the same difference. And it would be helpful if from now on you told us the whole truth. Nikki: You want to know the truth? My boyfriend loves that tree. He's totally going to freak out. Ow. (George runs up to Richard in the hall)George: Chief? There's a Ms. Warner down in Admitting. She's asking for you. Richard: Who?(Richard and George get in the elevator)George: Um, Olive Warner? Fifties. Uh, blonde hair. She said she's known you for about 20 years. Richard: Are you talking about Ollie?George: Right. Ok. Uh, Ollie Warner. She presented with upper GI bleeding. And she had a TIPSS procedure last month for esophageal varices. (Richard and George exit the elevator, he walks up the woman who had been coughing up blood.)Richard: I'll take this from here, O'Malley. George: Happy to help, sir. Richard: No, thank you. I got this myself. (To Woman) Ollie. Ollie: Hi, Richard. Good to see you. (Alex and Izzie are in Denny's room)Alex: Sinus tachycardia, low-grade fever, pulse ox 75. Izzie: I'm hearing rales in your lungs. Denny: Yeah. A freight train rolls through at noon. Izzie: How bad is the pain?Denny: I don't know. A five or six when I breathe. Alex: Which means a seven or eight when you're not trying to impress your doctor. Denny: Heard, uh, four people died in surgery this morning. Sid they were expecting three more. Alex: You get that from a nurse?Denny: Never reveal my sources. Just like to avoid the OR. (Alex and Izzie exchange looks) And I'm not liking that look. (Izzie sits on the edge of Denny's bed)Izzie: This could be a pulmonary embolism, Denny. A complication from the LVAD surgery. We gonna have to talk to Dr. Burke. (Alex clears his throat and Izzie stands up)(Meredith and Cristina are in the elevator with their patients)Meredith: I got hot chocolated. The She-Shepherd hot chocolated me. It's her juju. Cristina: I don't like people who say juju. Nikki: I say juju. Jesse: Juju, juju, juju. Juju, juju, juju. Juju, juju, juju.Meredith: I didn't drink it. Jesse: Juju, juju, juju. Nikki: You're not obligated to honor someone else's juju. Jesse: Juju, juju, juju.Cristina: Thought you were being friends. Jesse: Juju, juju, juju. Meredith: I am. With him. Do I have to be friends with her too?Jesse: Juju, juju, juju. Nikki: Definitely not.Jesse: Juju, juju, juju. Cristina: Maybe. Jesse. Juju, juju, juju. Meredith: I'll, uh, call psych for you. Cristina: That'd be good. Thanks. Nikki (Screaming): Ow! Ow! (Callie is setting Nikki's broken leg.)Callie: All right. That's the worst of it. Nikki: Oh, I never should have gotten out of bed. But I really wanted to surprise my boyfriend before he left for school. He had a huge exam today and I just, you know, I wanted to wish him luck. (George enters the room)George: Dr. Torres. Hey. Hi. Uh, can I give you a hand?Callie: You missed the boat, George. George: You mean on this case or...?Callie: Or...a hot chick gives you her number, you're supposed to call. Nikki: Yeah. George: I...I was...I mean, I am. Callie: Too late. Nikki: Ouch. Don't give up. I mean, if you really like her. (Meredith enters)George: Uh...ok.(George leaves)Nikki: Ok, the plot thickens. Callie: Nikki, Dr. Grey here is going to take you upstairs for a CT. But before she does, I have to ask: you're bruised all up and down your left side. You sure a tree branch did all this? Nikki: You think my boyfriend did this? He would never hit a woman. Ever. Callie: Mm-hmm. The bruises doesn't look like a tree branch hit you. Nikki: Fine. Ok, you guys are going to think I'm really weird, but I was sort of up in the tree when the lightning hit. And...I fell. Callie: You climbed a tree in a thunderstorm?Nikki: I really wanted it to be a surprise, you know, for my boyfriend. And...um, I just...I had to see if his psycho dog was in the yard because of, like, the barking and stuff and...I know. It sounds really weird. Does it sound really weird? Meredith: Not at all. Callie: No. Nikki: and this thing is, I mean, he wasn't even there. Meredith: The dog?Nikki: No. My boyfriend. He wasn't even home. I really shouldn't have gotten out of bed. (Derek walks by Cristina, she stops him)Cristina: Oh, Dr. Shepherd. I've got a 34-year-old male with a blunt head trauma and severe case of OCD.Derek: Oh, really. Did you call for a psych consult?Cristina: Yes. Derek: Let me know when you get a CT. Cristina: Ok. Derek: Thank you. (Derek walks away and Burke walks up)Burke: Hey. Cristina: Hey. Hey, uh, sorry about that, uh, valve replacement. Burke: Oh, thank you. Laundry lost my caps. Cristina: The guy didn't die because you weren't wearing one of your caps. Burke: I know that. I just prefer to operate wearing my own. It's a comfort thing. Cristina: Huh, well...I prefer having George out of our apartment. So I guess we both have comfort things. Burke: Yeah, what are you saying?Cristina: Uh, you know, um...I have one of your caps in my locker. Burke: Why do you have one of my caps...Cristina: That's not the point. You know, the point is, um, is that I think I'm going to keep it hostage. So you kick Bambi out and you get your cap back. Burke: Oh, well. I don't do well with ultimatums. Cristina: Maybe you should think of it more as a...trade. (Cristina walks away and George exits the elevator)George: Dr. Burke. I've got free time. Do you have any cases, do you need help...Burke: Actually, I do. (They both get into the elevator)Burke: Cristina has something of mine and I need you to get it back.(Richard enters Ollie's room. A young lady is in the room with Ollie.)Richard: Gretchen, would you mind leaving us alone for a minute?Gretchen: Ok. Richard: Thank you. Ollie: She's my new baby. Six months sober, she's already on the ninth step. Richard: You must be proud. Ollie: Always. Richard: You're on a transplant list, Ollie?Ollie: A couple of years now. Richard: The cirrhosis prevents blood from flowing into your liver. So it's backing up into your esophagus. Causing the ruptures. It's serious, Oll. Ollie: Well, of course it is. I mean, you don't puke blood if it's not serious. The question is: can you treat it?Richard: Maybe. Surgically. We'll have to run more tests and...whatever we do, it's a stop-gap. You need a new liver. Ollie: Yet another reason I should've laid off the sauce. You look scared. Richard: I am scared, Ollie. Ollie: Haven't seen you at a meeting in a while. Richard: I know, I know. Ollie: How've you been?Richard: We're talking about you. Ollie: Now I'm asking about you. Richard: Ellis Grey's daughter's working at the hospital. Ellis is in a nursing home with Alzheimer's. I try to go see her every chance I get. Ollie: You're having an affair with the woman who drove you to your alcoholic bottom.Richard: Ollie, we're not having an affair. She's sick. Ollie: You're lying to your wife?Richard: I'm not lying. Ollie: You're lying by omission. You are having an emotional affair. And now you're lying to your sponsor about it. Richard: You haven't been my sponsor in years. Ollie: I still have the right to bust your ass if I see you slipping. Richard: I'm not slipping. Ollie: Not yet. But you're making a pretty big mess. (Richard stands up and sighs) How many years you have now?Richard: Just passed 17. Ollie: I'm proud of you. And I'm scared too. Richard: You got me sober, Ollie. You walked me through it. (He takes her hand) And I'm going to walk you through this. (George is digging through Cristina's locker)George: Ok. That's...(Cristina enters the locker room)George: She still has...Cristina: You're a pervy little boy, George. And you're not finding the cap. George: I'll do your dishes for a month. Cristina: I don't do dishes. George: I'll do your laundry. Cristina: I don't do laundry. George: Maybe that's why Burke likes having me around. Cristina: Interesting, interesting. Are you having sex with him?George: No. Cristina: Then he likes having me around more. George: Why's it always have to be a competition? What do you want for the cap?Cristina: You out of the apartment.George: I'm not leaving until Burke says I have to leave. Cristina: Then you're not getting the cap. Now clean up my crap. George: No. (Bailey and Meredith are looking at CT scans)Meredith: Wow. Is that her spleen?Bailey: Looks like a grade three laceration. Maybe a four. What was she doing standing under a tree in a thunderstorm?Meredith: She wasn't standing under it. She was climbing it. Bailey: Why?Meredith: Uh...I'm getting the feeling she's a little bit of a stalker. Bailey: Do we need to call the police?Meredith: I don't think so. I think she's more a gentle stalker than a "kill you with a knife" stalker.Bailey: Right. Well, let's hope she lives to gently stalk another day. Meredith: Hey, you don't believe in that seven fatality thing, do you?Bailey: I believe this girl needs her spleen removed immediately. Go pick up the labs and get her on the board. Then we'll break the news. (Denny is breathing heavily, on a OR table)Izzie: It's almost over. Denny: You like horses, Izzie?Izzie: Everybody likes horses. Denny: That's not true. You know, horses are a great judge of character. You don't like horses, means they don't like you. Izzie: Huh. Alex: I've got an uncle that's a rodeo cowboy. Denny: Huh. No kidding. Burke: This is a big clot, Denny. I can't get it with the catheter. I'm sorry. We're gonna have to open your chest again. (Cristina is taking Jesse to CT)Jesse: I was counting the clicks. The...turn signal clicks. I couldn't move until it hit 333. The light was green, but I couldn't move. I can't blame them for hitting me. Raj: How long have you been feeling these compulsions?Jesse: A little bit all my life, but it's been out of control the last three years.Raj: Onset at 30 is typical. Jesse: Ruined a marriage. I can't hold a job...Cristina: Ok, Mr. Fannon, do you...Jesse: Is it clean? I need to know if it's clean. Cristina: It's very clean. Raj: Any relatives with OCD?Jesse: My mother. Killed herself at 38. Ruined her life. Now it's ruining mine. (Cristina clears her throat)Jesse: Clean, clean, clean?Cristina: Uh, we clean it between each patient. Raj: I think he needs you to say "clean, clean, clean."Cristina: It's clean, clean, clean. Jesse: Thank you. I know it's annoying. I can't help it. (Cristina walks past the window and sees George watching from the other side)Jesse: Uh, find a penny, pick it up, all day long you'll have good luck. Find a penny, pick it up, all day long you'll have good luck. Cristina: Ok, Mr. Fannon, do you...Jesse: Find a penny...Raj: Repetitive rhymes, prayers. It's classic. He needs to say it a specific number of times. Probably a multiple of three. Cristina: Let's get him in before he decides to start again. Raj: Is everything all right with, uh...that?(Raj nods to the window where George has his face pressed against it)Jesse: Find a penny, pick it up, all day long you'll have good luck. Cristina: Just, uh, don't look at him. (Meredith is walking through the halls, highlighting a book. She walks up to Derek, at the same time Addison exits a nearby elevator.)Meredith: Hey.Derek: Hi.Meredith: Hey...Addison: Oh, hey. Meredith: Hi. Derek: Hi. Meredith: I, uh...have to...Derek: Yeah. Addison: Yeah. (Meredith walks away)Derek: I do too. (Derek walks away)Addison: Yeah, I got...something too, so...(Richard is in Ollie's room, talking to Ollie and Gretchen.)Richard: I wish I had good news. The TIPSS procedure you had last month failed. Gretchen: What does that mean?Ollie: It means you're lucky you got sober young. Richard: Ollie, it means I'm going to have to put in a portacaval shunt. It's complicated. It has only a 50% survival rate. Ollie: What's my other choice? (Richard just looks at her) Ok, then. Um...you'll be the one to do it?Richard: I've performed this surgery nine times. Had four patients survive. Ollie: It's perfect then. I'll be your five out of ten. (Bailey and Meredith enter Nikki's room)Nikki: I'm not having surgery today.Bailey: You have a ruptured spleen. Nikki: And I'm sure that the spleen is very important. But I'm not having surgery today. You can operate after midnight but not one minute before. Bailey: Miss Ratlin, if I thought it would be safe I'd be more than happy to wait until after midnight. However, I have a husband and a baby at home who won't be happy. You know who else won't be happy? You. Your spleen is bleeding. Spleen trumps horoscope. Nikki: But it was more than just my horoscope. I went out to my car this morning. Flat tire. That's a sign, but I just changed the tire. Then there's a wreck on the freeway. Do I turn around and go home like it's telling me to? No, I detour an hour out of my way so that I can get to Kevin's house. And when I get to Kevin's house, I get struck by lightning! Meredith: But you weren't struck by lightning. Nikki: I'll die, ok? If you operate on my today I will die because I know I will. Please, just...just call my boyfriend and tell him that I'm having an operation at midnight. Because he will want to be here. Meredith: Ok. Nikki: Please. (Bailey and Meredith start walking out of the room.)Meredith: Should I call psych?Bailey: You can give it a shot. In the meanwhile, get her down to ICU. Poor girl's going to kill herself trying not to die. (Alex is drawing Denny's blood)Alex: Izzie paints a pretty picture because she likes you, you know?Denny: Ok. Alex: I'm just saying she likes you. Which is going to be hard on her. Denny: You mean...when I die? Come on. I'm asking you...man-to-man. Alex: With a clot in your pulmonary artery, it'll cut off the oxygen to your lungs and you'll die of hypoxia. If the hypoxia doesn't kill you, the strain on your heart will. Denny: And the surgery?Alex: It's not a routine procedure. You're at serious risk for bleeding because of the anticoagulants already in your system. What I'm saying is Izzie likes you. And she's not going to be the one to pull away. (Meredith and Cristina are at the lunch table in the outdoor cafeteria.)Meredith: How's your guy?Cristina: Brain's bleeding. Needs surgery. Want to know why? Because he couldn't move his car until he stopped counting. Meredith: My girl? Ruptured spleen? Won't have surgery because of her horoscope. Cristina: Oh, well, we should introduce them. They make a nice crazy couple. (George walks up and sits down)Cristina: Uh, you know what? I'm sitting with Meredith. Have some self-respect. George: Dr. Burke's orders trump any personal issues I might have. Meredith: Is the craziness rubbing off on him?Cristina: He's trying to...stalk Burke's lucky cap from me. Meredith: Burke has hat juju?Cristina: Apparently. Meredith: And you're using it against him?Cristina: Well, they're forcing me to. Because of the clarinet playing and the running and all the breakfast food. (Izzie walks up and sits down)Izzie: You guys, this whole death cluster thing is just ridiculous, right? I mean, just cause four died today doesn't necessarily mean there'll be three more before midnight. Cristina: It doesn't, Tinkerbell? For reals?Meredith: Are you worried about Denny?Izzie: Yeah. Of course I am. He's my patient. I mean, but if you're asking me if I'm "worried" about Denny, no. I'm sleeping with Alex, so...it's just...Hey, did Burke say anything to you...about Denny's surgery? Did he...? Cristina: No. It's your case. Izzie: Yeah. I know. I'm just asking that, you know, as your boyfriend, if...Cristina: I don't know why you'd care. You're sleeping with Alex, right?Izzie: Yeah. Cristina: Yeah. Izzie: Right. No, whatever. I'm just saying. There's no such thing as a death cluster. It's just stupid. Right?Meredith: I have to go convince my patient to let us operate. Cristina: Mm-hmm. (Cristina and Derek are talking with Jesse)Jesse: You're removing part of my skullcap? Do you really have to do that?Derek: It's the only way I can get to the affected part of the brain. Jesse: And the operating room, it's clean, clean, clean?Derek: Yes. It's clean, clean, clean. I'm gonna go get ready. (Derek leaves, Jesse starts clicking the light on and off)Cristina: Can you stop that, please?Jesse: No. Sorry. I wish I could. (Cristina moves to reveal George standing behind her.)Jesse (to George): She's judging me. George: No, she's not. Cristina: Yes, she is. I've been living with this for three years. And it's always the people who are most like me who judge me the most. You're type A, right? Straight A student? Top of your class? Cristina: Yes, I was. Jesse: So, you've managed to turn your compulsions into something productive. But we're cut from the same cloth. That's why you can't stand me. Cristina: Oh. Time to go. Jesse: But I'm not done.Cristina: Uh, yes you are, sir. George: How many do you have to do?Jesse: 96.George: Let him finish. Cristina: Fine. I'll see you in the OR.(Ollie, Gretchen and a group of people are in her room. Richard walks by the window. )Ollie: Oh, there's Richard. (Gretchen exits the room)Gretchen: Hey. Ollie says you should come in. She says you need a meeting. Richard: Not now. Not here. Gretchen: Yeah. Except she said to tell you not to protect your anonymity over your sobriety. (Richard follows Gretchen into the room, he closes the door behind him)All: God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference. Amen. Richard: Amen. (Denny is in the hallway prepped for surgery. Izzie walks up to him.)Izzie: Hey. How you feeling?Denny: Do me a favor? My will is inside my nightstand. Just make sure it gets in the right hands, ok?Izzie: Why are you talking about your will?Denny: We have to be realistic, Dr. Stevens. Izzie: Dr. Stevens?Denny: We got to be realistic. And if you can't, well, I can. Izzie (to Doctors): No, wait, um...can you wait just one minute? Denny, Denny, listen to me. You're not going to die. You can't go into surgery thinking your going to die. (Cristina enters the women's bathroom, George follows her.)Cristina: You want me to pee in front of you, is that what you want?George: You have it on you. Cristina: Oh, really? You want to go there?George: I wanna go there. Cristina: So, what are you going to do, Bambi? You gonna what, take it from me?George: Burke said to do whatever I have to do and I'm going to do whatever. (George starts grabbing Cristina)Cristina: George, it's not there. You're not getting it. Oh! No. No, you're not going to...No.(Callie exits a bathroom stall, looking confused.)Cristina: No. Oh! You've got my breast. That's my breast. That's my breast. My breast. (Callie starts washing her hands. They realize that someone is in the bathroom and stop fighting.)George: Hey, Dr. Torres. Callie: Dr. O'Malley, You're aware this is the women's restroom?George: Yes, ma'am. Callie: Good. (Callie leaves)Cristina: Dude. You called her ma'am. She's never going to sleep with you now. (George is in the hall and bumps into Izzie.)George: Oh, hey. Have you seen Burke?Izzie: He's on the phone with the laundry. They still can't find his scrub caps. George: That's what I got to tell him. Cristina won't give hers back. Unless I'm ready to hit a woman. And even though it's Cristina, I'm not ready to cross that line. Izzie: Wait! Wait, a moment. Cristina has one of Burke's scrub caps?George: She's holding it hostage. Why do you think I am stalking her? You...(Izzie runs off. She walks up behind Cristina, grabs her arm and pulls her into an office.)Cristina: Uh, ow. You're touching me. Izzie: George says you have Burke's scrub cap. Cristina: So?Izzie: Give it to him. Cristina: No. Izzie: Give it to him, Cristina.Cristina: What is with you?Izzie: He needs it to operate. Cristina: No, he doesn't. Izzie: That isn't your decision to make. Not when he's going in on Denny. Now, are you gonna give it to him or am I gonna physically take it from you? Cristina: Are you threatening me?Izzie: I swear to God, Cristina, I like you, I really do. But I grew up in a trailer park and I am not about kicking your pampered little Beverly Hills ass. And I do mean physically kicking your ass. (Cristina and Izzie walk up to Burke.)Cristina: You don't have to follow me. (Izzie gives her a look and walks away. Cristina hands the scrub cap to Burke.)Burke: Well, thank you. How long have you had this? It's one of my favorites. Cristina: You know, you don't need it. I keep that cap in my locker because every morning I look at it and I'm reminded of what I'm here for and what I want to be. A great surgeon. A surgeon who is decisive, and who executes, and who doesn't need a piece of clothing to give him an edge in surgery. You don't need it. Burke: I know. You're right. Cristina: I know I'm right. (Cristina walks away. Burke puts the scrub cap on and starts to head toward surgery. He passes George on the way.)Burke: Nicely done, O'Malley. Let's go scrub in. (Meredith is examining Nikki.)Nikki: How am I doing?Meredith: Nikki, is it possible you're misreading the signs? I mean, isn't two surgeons telling you that you need surgery a sign that you need surgery? Nikki: Did you call my boyfriend?Meredith: I did. Nikki: What'd he say?Meredith: He said he hasn't been your boyfriend in a while. Nikki: Did you tell him I got struck by lightning?(Scrub outside Denny's surgery. Alex is there and Izzie enters.)Izzie: What did you say to him?Alex: Who?Izzie: You know who. What the hell? Why does Denny think he's dying?Alex: Well, maybe because there's a good chance he is. Izzie: Just so we're clear. We're over, Alex. This is over. Alex: What? You're breaking up with me over a corpse?Izzie: No! No. I am breaking up with you because on your very best day...that corpse is twice the man you will ever be. You're not good enough for me, Alex. You're not good enough for anyone. (Burke enters and realizes something is going on.)Burke: You two, you're not scrubbing in. Whatever's going on with you, I don't need it in my OR. Alex: Fine. I'll watch from the gallery. Burke: No, no, you won't. You will take your energy as far away from my OR as you can get. (Alex leaves)Burke: Both of you. (Izzie leaves and George and Burke start scrubbing in.)(Jesse is in the OR getting ready for surgery.)Jesse: Find a penny, pick it up, all day long you'll have good luck. Find a penny, pick it up, all day long you'll have good luck. Find a penny, pick it up... Cristina: We're going to give you your anesthetic now. Jesse: all day long you'll have good luck. Find a penny, pick it up...Cristina: I'm sorry but we have to start. Jesse: Find a penny, pick it up...(Seattle scenes)(Derek is starting Jesse's surgery.)Derek: It's a beautiful afternoon to save lives, people. Lets have some fun. (Denny's OR, Burke and George get ready to start the surgery.)(Ollie's OR, Richard and Bailey get ready to start the surgery.)Richard: The incision begins along the left subcostal margin, across the right rectus, and extending well into the flank. (Meredith enters)Meredith: Dr. Bailey? It's Nikki Ratlin. Richard: I'll be all right, Bailey. Go. (Bailey and Meredith enter Nikki's room)Bailey: She, uh...yeah, she's bleeding out. We need to get her to the OR now. Nikki: I don't want an operation. Meredith: Nikki, your boyfriend called. He said he doesn't want you to die. Nikki: Kevin called?Meredith: Yes. Will you let us operate?(She flatlines)Meredith: Nikki?Bailey: Oh, code blue. Come on. (Bailey pressed the code button and code team rushes in.)Bailey: Ok. Charge to 200. Doctor: 200. Bailey: Clear. (Izzie is standing in front of the OR board, breathing deeply.)(Richard is operating on Ollie.)Richard: You have the back row of sutures in place. Give me some...clear field. Doctor: Pressure's dropping. Richard: Hang another unit. I need the field clear. (Nikki's room)Bailey: Clear. Charge 300!Doctor: Charge. Bailey: Clear. (Derek and Cristina are operating on Jesse.)Derek: Gel foam. That clip should've done it. I don't know. There's something I'm missing. (Burke is operating on Denny)Doctor: He's losing pressure, Dr. Burke. Burke: I'm working as fast as I can. George: We're losing him. (Stairs near the OR board.)Female Intern: I heard they're dying left and right. Male Intern: See? Told you there'd be seven. Izzie: Who? Who died?Female Intern: Don't know. I bet it was that spleen chick. You hear she wouldn't let them operate. Male Intern: Ah, my money's on the chief's shunt. Alex: I have twenty says Burke's guy went down. Dude's a walking time bomb. Male Intern: Bet. (Meredith and Bailey walk up. Meredith erases Nikki from the OR board.)Bailey: That makes five.Izzie: You lost her?Meredith: Yeah. I heard there's a number six. Izzie: Do you know who else?Meredith: No. I'm going to inform the family. (Richard walks out to the waiting room where Gretchen and a group of people are waiting.)Richard: She made it through. (Gretchen hugs him)Gretchen: Thank you. Thank you so much. Man: Thank you. Richard: You're welcome. You're welcome. (Derek and Cristina leave the OR, Jesse didn't make it.)MVO: Superstition lies in the space between what we can control...(Izzie is standing in a room, tears streaking her face.)MVO: and what we can't. Denny: So, I wasn't one of the seven?Izzie: It's past midnight. There were only six. Denny: Then why are you crying?Izzie: I'm not crying. Denny: You are too.Izzie: Oh, damn it. I cannot fall for a patient. Denny: Oh. Ok. Good luck with that. (Izzie smiles then kisses Denny.)MVO: Find a penny, pick it up, and all day long you'll have good luck. (George enters the locker room, where all the interns are getting ready to go home. He scoffs when he sees Meredith.)Alex: O'Malley, you are a sad excuse for a man. George: Excuse me?Alex: I know you heard me. You're like a whiny little girl. Meredith: Alex. Alex: You know why he's not speaking to you? Because he's not over you. Man, you got laid, it went badly. A man would move on. But you? You mope around this place like a dog that likes to get kicked. You make me sick, and if it wouldn't get me thrown out of the program, I'd smash your pathetic little face right into that locker. MVO: No one wants to pass up a chance for good luck. But does saying it 33 times really help?(Cristina is leaving the hospital.)MVO: Is anyone really listening?(Burke runs to catch up with her.)Burke: Hey. So if you feel that strongly about O'Malley, I'll ask him to leave tonight. Cristina: No, no, don't. Burke: I thought you wanted him out. Cristina: I do. But...not tonight. (Burke pulls the scrub cap out of his pocket.)Burke: Scrub cap. Cristina: Oh. Thank you. Burke: You're welcome. MVO: And if no one's listening, why do we bother doing those strange things at all?(Callie is walking in the ER and runs into George.)George: Hi. I didn't call. I should have called. I just...(Callie walks away. George takes out his phone and calls her.)George: Hi. This is George O'Malley calling. You gave me your phone number. I know I should have called sooner, but I'm calling now. And I just want to know...maybe you want to go out with me sometime? Because...I...love to watch you set bones. And I...oh, I...rarely spend...that much time in a women's restroom. And I really like you. (Callie smiles at him)So...is that a yes? MVO: We rely on superstitions because we're smart enough to know we don't have all the answers. (Addison walks up to Meredith with two cups of coffee)Addison: Hey. Meredith: Hey. Addison: I'm sorry to hear about your patient. Meredith: Thank you, Addison. MVO: And that life works in mysterious ways. (She gives one cup to Meredith and then walks to where Derek is standing and hands him the other cup.)Addison: Here you go, babe. Derek: Thank you. Addison: Hmm. Ready?(He hands the cup back.)Derek: Yeah. Here you go. Thank you. (Derek and Meredith share a glance and then Derek walks away.)MVO: Don't diss the juju...from wherever it comes. (Meredith takes a sip of the coffee and throws the rest away.)2x22: The Name of the GameOriginal Airdate: 4/02/2006Written by: Blythe RobeDirected by: Seith Mann(Joe's Bar)MVO: A good basketball game can have us all on the edge of our seats. Games are all about the glory, the pain and the play-by-play. (Meredith is sitting at the bar knitting, Derek is watching from afar.)MVO: And then there are the more solitary games. Joe (To Derek): Dude, is she knitting?MVO: The games we each play all by ourselves. (Derek walks up)Derek: You know, as a friend, I got to tell you, you look a little weird. Meredith: I am making a sweater. Joe: You're knitting. In a bar. You can't knit in a bar. You're scaring the customers. Derek: Come on, have a drink. Meredith: I can't have a drink. I'm celibate. Joe: You mean sober? She means sober. Meredith: No. Celibate. I'm practicing celibacy, and drinking does not go well with celibacy, because it makes everything and everyone seem kind of porny. And then my head gets all cloudy and then the next thing you know, I'm naked. And my point is, I'm celibate, and knitting is good for surgical dexterity, so I'm making a sweater. Derek: You, celibate? I just don't buy it. Meredith: No more men. (Addison walks up)Addison: No more men? Really? You? And I'm asking because we are friends. Meredith: Every guy I meet turns out to be married. Derek: Ooh. Ouch. Meredith: Sorry. Or Mark. Addison: Ok, I'm gonna go over there now. Meredith: Sorry. (Addison walks away)Meredith: Or remember the horrible thing I did? Remember George?Derek: You're making a sweater. Meredith: I am making a sweater. MVO: The social games, the mind games, we use them to pass the time. To make life more interesting. To distract us from what's really going on. (Izzie is sitting in Denny's room, knitting)Izzie: He's just not George anymore. He's broken George. First he chops off his hair. Then he starts hanging out with this Callie. That is not a name. Callie. Who is she anyway? I'm his best friend. Not that he talks to me anymore. Denny: Triple word score. 69 points. Woman, I'm beating the pants off you. Pay attention. What the hell are you doing?Izzie: I'm knitting a sweater. Actually, Meredith, that's my friend, the friend that broke George, she is knitting a sweater. She's not really knitting the sweater, because she cannot knit. But I want her to think she is knitting a sweater because she and I took a celibacy vow, so she's replacing sex with knitting, and so I'm knitting pieces of Meredith's sweater so I can switch them out with hers so she can really believe she's knitting because if anybody needs to be celibate, it's Meredith, because she broke George. You know? Denny: You took a vow of celibacy?Izzie: Yes. Denny: How am I supposed to get in your pants if you took a vow of celibacy?Izzie: That is a very inappropriate thing to say to your doctor. Denny: You know what's inappropriate? Promising sexual favors to a patient in order to get him to live and then backing out. Izzie: Denny Duquette! I so never ever promised...Denny: In my head, you did. In my head, you delivered. Izzie: Well...Denny: Don't worry. You weren't very good. Izzie: Ok. You know what? I was being nice. I was letting you win. Because you're "Mr. Sick Needs a New Organ Guy." But just for that comment, I'm going to kick your ass. Yeah, I'm going to...You put down "mount," Denny? MVO: There are those of us who love to play games. Any game. (Cristina, Burke, George and Callie are playing a game at Cristina and Burke's apartment.)MVO: And there are those of us who love to play...a little too much. George: Ok, uh, disastrous FEMA director. No. Callie: Oh, uh. Oh. George: Um, poo is?Callie: Brown. Poo is brown! Micheal Brown!George: Yes!Cristina: Time! Time!George and Callie: Whoo! Whoo! George: Yeah, thank you. Burke: Impressive, O'Malley. George: Thanks. Burke: "Poo is"?Callie: Apparently, we think alike. Cristina: Wow, can't believe you're proud of that. Callie: Hey, are you supposed to, um, open the papers ahead of time?George: Hey!Cristina: It's called strategy. Burke: Cristina, it's a game. Cristina: I know that. Burke: Well, you just seem a little intense and we're just trying to have some fun.Cristina: I'm having fun. Lets do this. Ok. George: Are you ready?Cristina: Mm-hmm. George: Go. Cristina: Blond ambition tour. (Burke says nothing) Blond ambition tour. Callie: Oh!Cristina: Vogue. (Burke says nothing) Oh, are you kidding? Ok, she's blonde, she's blonde! She's ambitious. With the...she's ambitious! And with the tour! And the vogueing! And the...Honey, ok, look at me! (To George) Ok...Shut up! Cones! Cones! Blond ambition, boob cones, and, uh, vogueing, honey, vogueing. Sean Penn! Sean Penn! George: Time! (Cristina looks frustrated) Zero points for Madonna. Burke: Oh! Madonna. Right. (Gallery, Cristina is pacing and Meredith and Izzie are knitting.)Cristina: Who doesn't know Madonna? Izzie: (Coughing) Sore loser. Cristina: I am not a sore loser. You know, and so what if I am? See, the whole point of games is that there's a winner. A first place. You want a second best surgeon operating on you? No, you want the very best. And second best is mediocre. And to settle for mediocrity is...is frankly, you know, a sign of self-loathing and substandard work ethics. I've gotta get George out of my apartment. Meredith: You know, you could sleep with him and then right in the middle start crying. It's painful and humiliating and unbelievably cruel, but apparently it works. Izzie: Would you just keep knitting? Kick him out so that he can come back home to us. Cristina: No, I can't kick him out. You know, he's Burke's puppy. It's gotta be Burke's idea. I just gotta figure out a way to make him do it. (OR where Burke is operating)Burke: Got a lot of metastatic disease here. How do we proceed?Alex: Definitely excise the endopronchial mets for symptomatic palliation. Burke: You've been doing your homework, Karev. Alex: Lot of late nights. Burke: Look at this. The mets have adhered to her chest wall. Alex: Dude, she's toast. Burke: Don't you think that's a little insensitive, Dr. Karev?Alex: She can't hear me. Burke: You don't know that. Bedside manner is part of the job, Karev. Late nights won't get you anywhere. You have to figure that out. (Derek walks up to Addison in the hall)Derek: Good morning. Addison: You going into surgery or coming out?Derek: Going in. I had to push back. Doc's sick. Addison: Sick? What are his symptoms?Derek: Polydipsia, lethargy, and vomiting. Addison: Any sign of fever or dehydration? Derek: It's unclear. I was considering running a course of IV antibiotics and a saline drip. Addison: Seriously?Derek: No, Addison. He's a dog. I dropped him off at the vet. They're gonna run some tests and observe him overnight. Meredith will check on him later. Addison: I gotta run, I got a transfer in from Mercy West. Will you wait for me to go home?Derek: Yeah.(Cristina is in a class)Teacher: Today we'll be covering...(Cristina raises her hand)Teacher: Yes?Cristina: Cristina Yang. First year, surgical intern. I'm just wondering if we're going to be covering both intra and extracorporeal knots in today's seminar? Teacher: We'll be training in all aspects of laparascopic general surgery. Starting with basic instrumentation...(Richard sits down behind Cristina)Richard: Dr. Yang. Cristina: Chief. Teacher: ...including tissue approximation. The suggested time for...Cristina: You're taking the class?Richard: It's a good refresher course, should be fun. Cristina: Fun. Yeah. Teacher: Now, who would like to volunteer for our first...(Cristina immediately raises her hand.) Dr. Yang. (George is in Molly Thompson's room.)George: Molly Thompson, 22 years old, 32 weeks pregnant. Transferred here from Mercy West when an ultrasound diagnosed the baby with congenital diaphragmatic hernia. Addison: Hello, Molly. I'm Dr. Addison Shepherd. Molly: You're supposed to be the best. Susan: And not to put any pressure on you, or anything, but this is my baby carrying my grandchild so I really hope that you are. The best, I mean. Molly: Mom, you're kind of threatening the doctor. Don't threaten the doctor. It doesn't help. Susan: Sorry. My husband tells me I have to try not to be such a mother lion because Molly's a grown woman and has her own life and everything, but...roar. Addison: It's ok. I can take it. I am the best. Molly: You can fix this, though? Right?Addison: We'll insert a scope into your uterus and then inflate a little balloon in the baby's airway, which should help stimulate the lungs to grow. It's not going to be easy on either of you. But I do have a strong record with this surgery. (Addison and George start to leave)Addison: Make sure you get her to the MRI and get me the results as soon as you can. George: I will. (There is a man standing outside the door of Molly's room.)George: Sir? Can I help you find something?Man: Uh...is there a Dr. Meredith Grey working today?George: Yes. Man: She's here in the hospital, right now?George: I can have someone page her for you if you want me to. Man: No. No. Thanks. George: Wait! Excuse me, sir. Are you...What's your name?Man: Thatcher. George: You're...Thatcher: Grey. Yeah. George: You're Meredith's father.Thatcher: Yeah. George: Are you sure you don't want me to page her for you?Thatcher: No. I'm sorry. It's complicated. (Molly's mother comes out of the room)Susan: Thatcher, honey? We're right here. Thatcher: Oh. Oh. There you are, Susan. Susan: Did you tell him? I roared a little. Couldn't help it. Thatcher: Oh. Oh, well, I knew you would. Uh...George: I'm sorry, I'm Dr. O'Malley. I'm, uh...Thatcher: Uh, well, excuse us. Uh...check on our daughter. (Bailey is standing in front of the OR board, Derek walks up.)Derek: Uh, Dr. Bailey! You have an extra intern?Bailey: I'm available. Derek: No, no, no, no. I said intern. Bailey: Shepherd, look at the board. Derek: Ok. What am I looking at?Bailey: My name isn't up there. It wasn't up there yesterday and it won't be tomorrow. Derek: What'd you do piss of the Chief?Bailey: Yeah. I pissed off the Chief. I went and had a baby. I gave birth. I created a human life. I'm a surgeon. We don't do that. He's mommy tracking me. Derek: He's just going easy on you. Bailey: No, I change diapers, I clean spit up, I sing the ABC's. I'm covered in mommy. But that does not mean I will be mommy tracked. Derek: You're freaking out. Bailey: I just need a surgery. I need a surgery, now. So for today, I'm your intern. I have not begun to freak out. Derek: All right. Come on. (Izzie and Meredith are standing at a nurse's station)Izzie: Cristina told me that George had a date with Ortho chick. Games night. She didn't even take him home afterwards. She hinted that she wanted to and then she said she couldn't. That's weird, right? Meredith: George made it perfectly clear that I'm not in his life anymore. Izzie: Think Ortho chick is hiding something? She could be hiding something. (Callie walks up)Callie: Stevens. Hold this. (Throws a tool at Izzie) George mentioned you're not big on ortho. Grey? Take the osteotome and the mallet. (Hands tools to Meredith) Follow me. (Seattle Scenes)(Beatrice Carvers room, Alex and Burke are there)Alex: Ms. Carver, unfortunately, we found that the cancer has metastasized to your chest wall. We took out a small tumor obstructing your airway which will help with your breathing buy...it's not a cure. Beatrice: So this is the end of the line. That's what you're saying? This is it? I die now? Burke: Beatrice...Beatrice: I want you to go back in and I want you to cut out everything that you can. As much as you can. I want as much time as you can give me, you understand? Burke: Unfortunately, any additional surgery...Beatrice: Excuse me. (A young lady, Amelia enters the room)Daughter: Mom, I'm not eating any of that crap in the cafeteria. I mean, we're gonna have to order in Thai food or something because I'm starving and the food here blows. Beatrice: I'll have the nurse bring a menu by and we can have a picnic in bed. Amelia: God, mom, how many doctors do you have?Beatrice: They were just leaving. (She flips on the television and Burke and Alex leave.)(Class with Cristina and Richard)Teacher: In five to ten years, cutting, as we know it, will be virtually obsolete. Very nice, Dr. Yang. Cristina: Thank you, sir. Teacher: A little less tension there, Chief. Watch your grip. There you go. Richard: (To Cristina) I wasn't copying you. Cristina: Of course not, sir. (Loudly) Done! I'm done! I totally finished first. I'm done. (Izzie, Meredith and Callie are working on a patient)Izzie: So, Dr. Torres...Callie: Hold it steady, Grey. Izzie: Did you always know you wanted to specialize in orthopedics?Callie: Did you always know you wanted to model?Izzie: Oh, ok. Callie: Grey, I mean it. Watch your grip. Izzie: And your husband? Is he a doctor too?Callie: What are you trying to ask me, Dr. Stevens? My history? My marital status? My deep dark little secrets?Izzie: I'm George's best friend. Callie: Oh, I see. Well, it's just funny because from what I understand, as his best friend, you haven't been the best matchmaker in the past. (Izzie is walking down a set of stairs, George is standing on the landing.)Izzie: Hi. George: Hey. Izzie: Your hair's growing out, which is nice. I still think you should cut it. I could cut it for you, if we still lived together. Or we could just hang out and talk, about stuff. Like your new friend, Callie. She's, uh, she's very, um...You know, if you like her, I will like her. Eventually. George: I can't escape her. Izzie: What?George: All I want to do is forget her. All I want to do is just escape her and...you know, I can't. Izzie: You want to escape Callie? Thank God, because she is like a total freak and I'm starting to get really worried about you. (She looks at George who is just standing there) Not Callie. Sorry. Oops. Who? Or, uh...oh! Meredith again. George: Let me tell you something. The minute I tell what I'm about to tell you, this officially becomes your problem. Not mine. Izzie: Ok. George: Meredith has a sister. (Derek and Bailey are in surgery)Derek: How we doing?Doctor: Turning the skull flap. Patient's sedated. Derek: Very nice. Nicely done. Bailey: He's a kid. Derek: Yes. Bailey: I just didn't think it would be a kid. A tumor that size...What happens now?Derek: Now we wake him up. Bailey: We're doing awake brain surgery on him. Derek: Yes. Thank you. Andrew? A little more. Andrew? Can you hear me? Hey, want to count for me?Andrew: One...Derek: Good. Keep going. Andrew: Two. Three. Derek: The tumor is located near the language center of the brain. It's always important that we don't damage it. Andrew? I need you to keep talking. Can you do that? Can you talk to me? Andrew: I'll...I'll try. Derek: Great. Now what grade are you in?Andrew: Um...seventh. Derek: You into sports?Andrew: Not really?Derek: How about baseball?Andrew: Um...baseball's a sport. Derek: Right. Ok. What about, uh, girls? Do you have any girlfriends?Andrew: No. Bailey: Um...you probably don't have tome for girlfriends, right, Andrew? Probably too busy, right?Andrew: Yes, ma'am. Bailey: What are you busy doing?Andrew: Getting ready for the National Spelling Bee. I won the greater regionals last month. Bailey: Oh, well, in that case, you need to spell some words for us. Uh, can you do that?Andrew: Sure. Bailey: Good. Uh...Derek: You usually provide the word, Dr. Bailey. Bailey: I don't hear you coming up with one. Uh, lets see. Oh, right! Um, "acetaminophen."Andrew: Acetaminophen. Origin of the word?Bailey: Heck if I know. (Addison and George pass in the hall.)Addison: Do you have Molly's MRI results?George: No, I haven't. Not yet. Addison: What the hall have you been doing then?George: I was just going...Addison: When I assign you to a case of mine I expect you to give it your full and undivided attention. Give me one good reason why I shouldn't take you off this case. George: Molly Thompson's maiden name is Grey. Her father is Thatcher Grey. Thatcher Grey is also Meredith's father. Which means that, Molly and Meredith are sisters, but I don't think Meredith even knows Molly exists. That... I don't care. I don't, except I'm on this case and apparently God hates me. Addison: Ok. George: Ok, thanks.(Alex and Burke enter Beatrice's room)Beatrice: I want all this out now. I'm getting out of the hospital. Burke: Oh, we can't, Beatrice. You just had major surgery... Beatrice: Tomorrow is my daughter's birthday. Apparently, it's the last one I get to celebrate. I'm not spending it in here.Burke: Ok. I'm so sorry. But if we remove this tube, your lung will collapse. I'm sure you don't want to spend your daughter's birthday this way. Beatrice: I'm a quick healer. I'm breathing better since the surgery. Burke: That is because we removed some of the tumor opened up your airway. That doesn't mean that you are well. All right? If you try to leave, you're at risk of infection or hemorrhage. Alex: Your kid doesn't even know you have cancer. You really want to risk dropping dead on the street outside the hospital?(Alex and Burke leave the room)Burke: Dr. Karev. So you thought...scaring her back in the bed was the way to go?Alex: It worked, didn't it? She's lying to her kid. Burke: She's frightened. She's in shock. It is not your job or your place to take a tone like that with a patient. Not ever. Are we understood? Alex: Yes, sir. (Izzie, Cristina and George are having lunch in the outdoor cafeteria)Izzie: So what are the sister and the father like?Cristina: Like? They're like people Meredith is related to and never met.George: They're nice. Izzie: Can you imagine? A sister, a whole family you know nothing about. You think she's going to freak out?George: It's not my responsibility to care. Cristina: Heads up. Heads up. (Richard walks up and sits down at their table.)George: Hey, chief. Seems I'm a little rusty on my bead transfer and rope pass. Dr. Yang here, has been kicking my ass all day. Izzie: Oh, I can't imagine, Chief. Richard: No, really, she has. Of course, spend and precision aren't the most important surgical skills, Dr. Yang. The basics are the key. You need a solid foundation before anything else. Ok, um...We'll, I'll see you back at the lab. Enjoy your lunch. George: You too. Izzie: Have a nice day, sir. (Richard leaves)Cristina: Ok, I really am kicking the Chief's ass. (Meredith walks up and sits down and George leaves)Izzie: George. George: Not my responsibility. See you guys. Cristina: So who's going to be the...Meredith: It's ok. I can accept rejection. I've got my knitting. Cristina: Mer...Meredith: The weird thing is, I thought I just saw my father. Izzie: Ok. That's good. That's so good. Cristina: Hmm. Did you meet your sister too?(Andrew's OR)Andrew: "Appoggiatura" won last year. Year before that? Akshay Buddiga. He fainted, then got up and spelled the word "alopecoid." Kid's a major legend. Derek: All right. Now it's my turn. "Fibromyalgia."Bailey: Fibromyalgia?Derek: Yeah, what's wrong with fibromyalgia?Bailey: Andrew won the regionals. He's going to D.C. He's probably insulted by fibromyalgia.Andrew: Fibromyalgia. Derek: Suction.Andrew: F-I-B-R-O-M-Y-A-L-G-I-A. Fibromyalgia. She's right. That was kind of easy. Derek: Ok. You want me to bring on the heat? I'll bring on the heat. "Omphalocele."Andrew: Omphalocele. Derek: Mm-hmm. More suction in there. Andrew: (Slurring) Omphalocele. Derek: Ok. Bailey: Andrew? What's happening?Derek: Mark that. We've hit the language center. We have to pull back. Bailey: Andrew? Andrew? Oh, Andrew. Andrew. Uh, spell it again for me. Derek: Give me the probe. Bailey: Dr. Shepherd's working on it. I don't want you to be scared. I want you to wait. Wait, I want you to hold on. Derek: Mark that as well, please. Ok, try now. Bailey: Ok. All right, Andrew, spell "omphalocele" one more time for me. Andrew: Omphalocele. Derek: Mark that, please. Andrew: O-M-P-H-A-L-O-C-E-L-E. Omphalocele. Bailey: That's it. That's perfect. (Sniffling)Andrew: Dr. Bailey, are you crying?Bailey: Ooh! I got something in my eye. Derek: You're doing great, Andrew. We're almost done. Bailey: Stop looking at me like that. It's my hormones. Derek: Mm-hmm.Bailey: I'm still a surgeon. I'm just a surgeon with an excess of estrogen. Deal with it. Andrew, can you spell "estrogen"?Andrew: E-S-T-R-O-G-E-N. Derek: Here's a word for you. "Delusional."Andrew: Delusional. (Cristina and Richard's class. Cristina and Richard are preparing to battle!)Teacher: Today's final assignment will show how well you can take the skills you have learned and apply them to a single operation. You may begin. (Addison is in Molly's room. Meredith walks by peeking in.)Addison: So I'm gonna do the surgery with a small scope. It will be minimally invasive. And then you should be able to do the rest of your recovery from home. Molly: Thank you. Yeah, Ok. (Addison sees Meredith in the hall)Addison: Uh...(Nods to Meredith to enter) Uh, Molly, this is Dr...uh...This is Meredith. She's going to be...continuing your prep work and taking your vitals, ok? Molly: Ok. Meredith: Hi. Molly: Hey. Meredith: Uh, do you mind if I, um...?Molly: No, it's fine. Meredith: Ok. Molly: I'm getting used to being poked and prodded. Meredith: That's, uh, a pretty ring. Molly: Oh, thanks. It was my grandma's and then my mom's. You think I'm too young to be married.Meredith: No, I...Molly: That's ok. Everybody thinks I'm too young. If I saw me, id think I was too young. Meredith: Um, how...how old are you?Molly: 22. Eric's 23. And he's in the army and he was getting shipped out. And...I just love him so much, you know? Anyway, I proposed. Meredith: Oh. And your, uh, parents? They approve?Molly: Oh. Oh, my parents are amazing. You know how dads can be. Mine's pretty overprotective. But...you know, at my wedding, when he gave me away, my dad cried, which was...I had never seen my dad cry before. But I think it was also kind of weird for him 'cause I'm his little girl. You know, I'm the youngest, and my sister's like nowhere near ready for marriage. But...it was good crying. Like...he was proud of me, you know? I'm sorry. I'm just nervous, so I'm talking. Meredith: No, that's ok. So you have a sister?Molly: Yeah, Lexie. She's in medical school. Harvard. She's the smart one. You should see how my dad is about her. He's like crazy proud. Meredith: Well, I'm going to go. Molly: Meredith?Meredith: Hmm?Molly: Do you think my baby's going to be ok?Meredith: Oh. Well, I hope so. Molly: Me too. Meredith: Ok. (Meredith enters a room, slamming the door behind her. Callie and Izzie are in there.)Meredith: I need some bones to break. Callie: What?Meredith: Some bones to break. Something to smash. Can you help me with that, please?Callie: Um...you can clean up this cast crap if you want. (Meredith starts pounding on the cast with a hammer.)Callie: Is she freaking out?Izzie: No. Uh-uh. She's fine.Meredith: Oh. Izzie: She's great. So, George...he's really, really your type, huh?Callie: You don't see him. Either of you. You don't see him. He's just...He's just George to you. He's...He's just O'Malley. Your roommate. Izzie: You don't have to get all up...Callie: He makes my world stop. George O'Malley is sweet and kind, and smart and strong. (Meredith is still pounding away on the cast)Callie: And he makes my world stop. So you shut up about him. (To Meredith) Don't forget to clean it up. When you're done smashing. (Callie leaves)Izzie: Holy crap! George is her McDreamy. Meredith: Oh.(Cristina and Richard's class. Cristina looks over and Richard has his eyes closed.)Richard: I'm done. I'm done. I'm done. Teacher: Flawless, Chief Webber. Absolutely flawless. Richard; They call me Dr. Webber. That's why I'm the chief. That's why I'm the chief. (Singing) That's why I'm the chief. Chief. (Beatrice's room. Alex is in there and her daughter enters)Amelia: So when is my mom getting out of here?Beatrice: I'm sorry, honey, but it's going to be a few days. Can you call aunt Sue? See if she can pick you up?Amelia: So I get to spend my birthday hanging out with Aunt Sue? Perfect. Beatrice: I promise you, next year. Next year well do something really special for your birthday. You name it. It's done. I promise. Amelia: Whatever. (The daughter leaves the room)Alex: So, this whole lying thing? This is working out for you?Beatrice: Excuse me?Alex: You're going to die. And soon. You get that, right? There's no rosy picture to paint here. Beatrice: You're not a mother. You don't know what it's like to hold your newborn baby in your arms, and smell her head and know that your only job in the world is to protect her. Alex: You think you're protecting her?Beatrice: I am protecting her. Alex: I guess you can call it what you want. But you should just know, you're leaving behind a kid that will probably hate you the rest of her life. (Burke clears his throat, he has been listening at the door.)Burke: Dr. Karev...Alex: No. I'm talking this time. Burke: Excuse me?Alex: I tell the truth. It's what I do. It doesn't make me a bad doctor. Everyone walks around this place lying. We tell the patient that's dying that there is hope when there is no hope. Maybe I'm a pig. Maybe I'm an ass. Maybe I'm a vermin like everybody says. But I tell them the truth. It's the one thing that I've got going for me. And you don't get to take that away from me and call it a lesson, sir. (Meredith walks past Susan Grey, she doesn't know who she is.)Susan: I saw a picture once from a long time ago, you look just like her. Your mother. You look a lot like my girls. Especially Molly. You were talking to her? Meredith: I didn't say anything about anything. Susan: Oh, she knows about you. Or she knows that her father was married before and had another daughter. Has another daughter. Meredith: No, had is right. Susan: Your father thinks about you. He thinks about you a lot. He just...Your mother...Your mother...She broke him. Meredith: Excuse me. I...I have to work. (Thatcher is standing in front of the OR board, Richard walks up. It takes him a moment to realize who Thatcher is.)Thatcher: I spent years studying this board. Holding a crying baby, trying to get an idea when my wife would get out of surgery. Appy takes about an hour. Anything with the word "cardio" and I know not to plan on seeing her at all that day. Richard: Thatcher. Are you aware of what's going on with Ellis?Thatcher: You have no right. No right to talk to me about Ellis. Richard: I'm sorry. But I was trying to talk to you about Meredith. Thatcher, Ellis has early onset Alzheimer's. It's advanced. And it's hard on Meredith, as you can imagine. And I thought you'd want to know. (Bailey is in Andrew's room, his mother is sleeping in a chair.)Bailey: Hey, Andrew. It's Dr. Bailey. Remember me? I was in surgery with you. Andrew: I'm...I'm sorry. Bailey: No, don't worry. Don't worry. A lot of times kids who are awake during surgery don't remember afterwards. Anyway, your operation went really well. We got all that tumor out of there and you're going to be just fine. Andrew: I...I...thanks.Bailey: Ok. You know, I have a son, too. And I'm going home right now to tell him that today I met the best speller in Seattle. (George is walking through the hall, he sees Meredith duck into a nearby room. Thatcher walks up to him.)Thatcher: Oh, hey. Dr. O'Malley. George: Hi. Thatcher: I was looking for you. You're...Before when I was asking about Meredith, you know her. You're her friend?George: I used to be her roommate. Thatcher: Oh, wow. You know her really well. George: I know her pretty well. Thatcher: Um, she...she came to see me a couple of weeks ago. And...George: A couple of weeks ago?Thatcher: Yeah. I...I didn't know what to say to her. She looks so much...so much like her mother. Ellis was cold. I mean, I was a coward. I was...I...I left. But her mother would never let me know her and...now I don't know how to know her. Uh... George: Well, Meredith is anything but cold. She smiles. Not that often, but when she does, uh...you know, because she's been going through a lot...but...it's...it's like you feel warm. She's kind. I mean, she can be a little selfish. She can be...she's flawed, but she's kind. She cares about people. And, uh, she cares about...about her patients. I think she's going to be a brilliant surgeon. You know, around here, she's known as the one to beat. So, I...I mean, I guess she has that in common with her mom, but...I think the rest of her...I think, uh, I think the rest of that she gets from you. Thatcher: Hmm. Do...do you know...where she is?George: I think she left already. But I could tell her you were here, if you want me to?Thatcher: Yeah. Ok. Thank you. George: Ok. Thatcher: Ok. George: Ok, bye. Thatcher: Yeah. (Thatcher and George walk in different directions, Meredith peeks out from her hiding spot.)Meredith: Thank you, George. (Molly and baby's surgery. Addison is there.)Addison: The hernia is causing the baby's abdominal...(Gallery, Meredith is knitting and Derek enters.)Meredith: Hey. Derek: Hey, still knitting?Meredith: Oh, yeah. I'm getting so good at it. Derek: Hmm. I did a craniotomy on a kid today while he was awake. Meredith: I met a sister I never knew I had. And I saw my father which was, uh...I don't know what it was. Derek: Hmm. You ok?Meredith: I have my knitting. (Beatrice is alone in a room with her daughter.)Beatrice: Study hard, keep your grades up. But starting next year you're going to want to take two AP classes a semester if you want to get into a decent college. Amelia: Mom, this is really morbid. Beatrice: And your Aunt Sue is kind of lazy when it comes to personal hygiene so you may have to be the one to remind her when it's time to get your eyebrows waxed or get your hair cut, but eventually she'll get the routine down. Amelia: Can we not have this conversation?Beatrice: Oh, this might sound random, but wear underwear with pantyhose. I know it might feel a little bulky, but honestly, it's a little slutty not to and also that's how you get yeast infections. (Alex starts to enter the room but stops)Amelia: Mom, this is totally gross. Beatrice: And marry a kind man. One who's nice to his mother. Now, if he lives with his mother, you run the opposite way. Amelia: Mom, I'm not getting married any time soon. Beatrice: You will someday. And when that day comes, just have one glass of champagne and then you drink water for the rest of the night because there's nothing tackier then a drunken bride. Amelia: Mom, I don't want to...Why are you telling me all this?Beatrice: Honey, I've been sick for a long time and the doctors just don't think that I'm going to get better. Amelia: No.Beatrice: Amelia. Listen to me. Look at me. Amelia. This is important. This one is...is really the important one. Someday you're going to have a baby. And you're going to feel overwhelmed by this little life that you're responsible for. And you're going to think...worry that everything you do is wrong. And that's normal. You're going to obsess about what to feed it and where to send it to school and whether it should take violin or piano. But I'm gonna let you in on a little secret. It doesn't matter. Whether your kid is a concert pianist or a math genius, it just doesn't matter because at the end of the day, all that matters is if your kid is happy. So you're going to feel sad...for a little while. And that's ok. That's...that's fine. But don't feel sad forever. Ok? You can promise me that? You promise me that you won't feel sad for too long? Amelia: I promise.Beatrice: Ok. Thank you. You make me feel much better. MVO: Life is not a spectator sport. (Thatcher walks into Molly's room)MVO: Win, lose or draw...the game is in progress...whether we want it to be or not. (Izzie is in Denny's room and holds up a sweater.)Izzie: Ta-dah!Denny: You made me a sweater. Today. In one day, you made me a sweater? Izzie: Yeah, well, you know. I just had some time, so...Denny: That vow of celibacy must really be something. Izzie: You know what? Just accept your gift and say thank you. Denny: Does this mean I don't get any sexual favors? Sweater instead of sex?Izzie: Smell it. Go on, smell it. Denny: It smells like Izzie. Izzie: Yeah, I wore it for three hours. So that is the closest you're going to be getting to this body, mister. You wanna play some Scrabble or you too tired? Denny: Scrabble, please. Izzie: Ok. Denny: Just show me one boob. (Cristina is waiting near the elevator, Richard emerges.)Cristina: Sir. Richard: Nice work today, Yang. Hopefully your fellow interns will be as adept on the scope as you. Cristina: Thank you, sir, but, um, you weren't even looking. You actually had your eyes closed. So, how...I was watching you and...and you didn't even need the...You didn't even need the screen to help you guide the needle holder. Richard: Old school, Yang. Muscle memory. You want to win, always go back to the basics. (Derek and George are playing chess at their apartment.)Burke: It's my move?(Cristina walks out of her room, naked. George quickly covers his eyes.)Burke: Cristina, what the hell are you doing?Cristina: Oh. Um...being comfortable in my apartment. George: I didn't see anything! Dude, I did not see anything!Burke: Get out. Cristina: (Smiling) Basics. MVO: So go ahead: argue with the refs, change the rules...cheat a little...take a break...and tend to your wounds.(George is sitting in the abandoned hallway, dialing his phone.)MVO: But play. (George hears the follow ring of a phone and follows the sound.)(George walks into a room in the hospital basement where Callie is lying on a bed.)Callie: (Into phone) Hello?MVO: Play. George: Hi. Callie: Um, hey. Um...George: You live here?Callie: Yeah. I'm not...crazy or anything. I just spend so much time here in the hospital. It's just...it's easier. So...I'm not...I'm not crazy or anything. George: Do you know how to cut hair?(Callie starts cutting his hair.)MVO: Play hard. Play fast. Play loose and free. (George grabs her arm and pulls her down to kiss her.)(Meredith is at the vet, still knitting.)MVO: Play as if there's no tomorrow. Lola: (On phone) Dandridge's Veterinary Clinic. We certainly do. Yes. Thank you. (To Meredith) You getting the hang of it?Meredith: Not really. Lola: You give up men?Meredith: No. Yes. You know, I don't actually need to see the vet. I really just wanted to sit with Doc. I just want to spend some time with my dog. (A men enters)Finn: Hi. I'm Finn Dandridge. I'm Doc's vet. And you are Dr. Grey. Doc's other owner. We finally meet. Hello. MVO: Ok, so it's not whether you win or lose...it's how you play the game. Right?2x23: Blues for Sister SomeoneOriginal Airdate: 4/30/2006Written by: Elizabeth KlaviterDirected by: Jeffrey Melman(Hospital basement)MVO: The key to being a successful intern is what we give up. Sleep, friends, a normal life. We sacrifice it all for that one amazing moment. That moment when you can legally call yourself a surgeon. (Callie and George come out from underneath the blankets, obviously just having finished having sex.)Callie: Thank you. Oh, thank you, thank you, thank you. (Derek and Addison's trailer. They are lying in bed looking disgusted.)Addison: Thanks. MVO: There are days that make the sacrifices seem worthwhile. Derek (Laughing): Oh, my God. You're thanking my for the most boring sex ever?Addison: I didn't know what else to say. I mean, you did your best. Derek: Oh, great. Thanks. You too. It's really nice work. Addison: We used to be really good at this, didn't we?Derek: We're going to do this until we get it right. (They butt heads) Ow! Jeez!(The phone rings.)Addison: Perfect. Ow. Derek: That's the hospital. Hello? Hi. No, no, no, no, no. It's about Doc. Yeah. No, I'm here. Yeah, I can pick him up this morning. Sure. Bye. No. Come on. (Addison takes the phone from Derek.)Addison: Dr. Dandridge. Dr. Dandridge. I...We're gonna have to call you back. We're trying really hard to have some decent sex here. (Screen switches to show Meredith on the phone.)Addison: Come on. What's so funny?(Meredith is at the vet, she hangs up without saying anything.)MVO: And then there are the days where everything feels like a sacrifice. (Finn enters the room with Doc.)Finn: Everything ok?Meredith: Yeah. Everything's great. Hey, Doc. You look good. He looks good. Finn: It may just be a virus. But I'd like to wait until we get the blood tests and the x-ray results back before I say anything for sure. Meredith: So he can go home today? Cause Derek says he can pick him up. Finn: He can go home. Meredith: You hear that, Doc? You can go home. Finn: So you and Derek, uh...you're together?Meredith: Uh...Uh, Derek and I are, um, just friends. He's married and I'm knitting a sweater. And, uh, well, I guess I'm rambling, which I tend to do a lot of lately, and I wish somebody would just tell me to shut up. But my point is...yeah, we're...uh...He's married and I'm knitting a sweater. Finn: So you're single?Meredith: Single. Finn: I ask because I was wondering if you'd like to go out with me. Meredith: Out. With you. Finn: On a date. Tonight. Meredith: A date. Tonight. Finn: And you're repeating everything I say so that you can buy yourself some time and figure out how, a way to let me down easy. It's ok. I get it. Meredith: No. No. I...I...um...you know, you're very...it's just that if I were, you would...not dating. MVO: And then there are the sacrifices that you can't even figure out why you're making. (Richard, Burke and Bailey are standing in front of the OR board.)Bailey: Another day, and once again I don't see my name on the board. Chief, any reason my name isn't on the board?(Richard pats her on the back)Richard: Slow day. (Richard walks away.)Bailey: He just patted me on the back. Tell me, when did I become a person who gets patted on the back?Burke: You think he's mommy tracking you?Bailey: What...what have you heard?Burke: How about you handle Denny Duquette for me today?Bailey: Absolutely. Thank you, Dr. Burke. (Bailey walks away and Cristina walks up.)Cristina: I brought you a coffee. Burke: Oh, thanks. Uh, very thoughtful. Cristina: What?Burke: Nothing. I'm just dragging a little. I only did two miles this morning. O'Malley and I were up to six, we pushed each other. Cristina: Oh, you're missing George. Burke: No. No, of course not. Cristina: Drink your coffee. Burke: No, that's all right. Actually, I'm waiting on...(George walks up)George: Cappuccino. Burke: Hey, O'Malley. George: Big news. Eugene Foote is here. He's having problems with his pacemaker. Burke: Eugene Foote is here? What? In this hospital?George: Uh-huh. Cristina: Who's Eugene Foote?George: Genius violinist? Burke's hero? Burke flew down to San Francisco last year, to put in his pacemaker. Burke has like 40 of his albums. Burke: No. Um, 42. George: Actually, 43. Because you just got the greatest hits. You know, the one with the DVD. Burke: Oh! Right. You want in on Foote?George: Yes. But, uh, I'm on neuro today with Dr. Shepherd. Burke: Ok. George: Eugene...(George runs off)Cristina: I want in. Hello. I want in. Burke: Hmm? Oh. Sure. Yeah, right. Cristina: Burke? Um, I laid on top of you naked last night. So why don't you wax nostalgic about that?(Meredith and Alex are standing at the nurse's station.)Meredith: Obviously, I can't go out with him, right?Alex: Do I look like a chick to you? Do I look like I care about yeast cream or tingling feelings? I mean, he's not in jail or on drugs or keeping body parts in his basement. You want to do him, do him. (Cristina walks up)Meredith: Not do him. Date him. I'm not doing anybody. I'm knitting. Cristina: I need Eugene Foote's chart. Oh! Who are we talking about?Meredith: It's weird, right? I mean, he's Derek's vet. He's Doc's vet. He's my vet. He's McVet. It's weird to date him, right? Cristina: Wait, did you say vet?Meredith: Mm-hmm. Cristina: Like animals? Oh, you can't date a vet. He's not even a real doctor. (Addison walks up.)Addison: Damn it! Sex. Hot sex. Need that! Ha-ha, very funny. Meredith: Mustn't have gone so well this morning. Cristina: What?Meredith: Just run if she looks at you. Addison: I need an intern. Now. Meredith: I'm with Bailey. Cristina: I'm with Burke. Addison: Karev. Alex: I don't do vagina. Not as a doctor anyway. Addison: Oh. Back talk. You know what? You just bought yourself a case. (Meredith and Bailey enter Denny's room)Bailey: How you feeling this morning, Denny. Denny: Great. Be even greater if you'd get me off this machine. Bailey: Denny, you know I would, but then your heart would stop beating, and Dr. Burke would yell at me and that'd make for a very bad day for both of us. Meredith: Is he a candidate for the portable LVAD?Denny: Now, see? That's what I'm talking about. Half the size, twice the fun.(Izzie enters)Bailey: Ah, you've been doing your research, huh?Denny: I have. Izzie: I've already told him, he's not ready for it yet. Bailey: Dr. Stevens, didn't I assign you to neuro this morning?Izzie: Yeah. I was...I'm on my way. But could you tell him about the complications? Meredith: You'd be risking air embolus, v-fib. Izzie: Yeah and the tubing could kink inside of your body, in which case, we'd have to rush you to emergency surgery. Bailey: Dr. Stevens, unless Mr. Duquette's heart has suddenly grown a brain, you are currently not doing your job. Izzie: I'm going. (To Denny) Just don't be stupid, ok?Denny: You're not the boss of me today, woman. (Eugene Foote's room)Eugene: I want you to take it out. Burke: Take it out? But Mr. Foote, your heart function has improved exponentially since we put the pacemaker in. The setting is working well. Eugene: You know my music, Dr. Burke. Burke: Very well, sir. Changed my life. Eugene: Well, your contraption has changed my heartbeat. It changed my rhythm. I can't play. And that's a sacrifice I am unwilling to make. Cristina: But you'd be willing to sacrifice your life for your music?Eugene: They're one and the same. Burke: Before we do anything drastic, just let me try one more setting on the pacemaker. Listen, one more setting, Mr. Foote. Please. Eugene: Ok, sure. (Addison enters the room of Mr. and Mrs. Ward.)Addison: Hello, Wards. Kids: Hi. Addison: We're just waiting on your labs. How you feeling?Rose: I'm feeling large. Large and cow-like.Child: Cow?Rose: Mommy is a cow who needs a quiet talk with the doctor. Mr. Ward: Hey, guys. Who wants ice cream?Kids: Me! Me!(Alex enters the room as Mr. Ward and the kids leave)Alex: CBC and CHEM-7 look fine. Addison: Rose?Rose: I'm sorry. I'm so tired. Addison: Oh, Rose, well, you know, six kids, 38 weeks pregnant. A saint would be tired. Rose: Well...I'm no saint. This baby, Joseph...Dr. Shepherd, I need him to be my last. And I really seem to be the most fertile woman on the planet. Addison: Well, if you're interested in alternative forms of birth control...Rose: No. What I mean is...today, during the C-section, I need you to tie my tubes. And I need you to do it without my husband ever knowing. Addison: Rose, you're an adult. He's your husband, not your legal guardian. Telling him would be entirely up to you. Rose: No, if you charged my insurance he would see it. Any bill you sent, he would see it. I've been saving for this and I can pay you privately. Addison: So you're saying you want me to do the surgery and leave no record of it?Alex: Mrs. Ward, if you're being abused, there are people you can talk to. Rose: Oh, Chris is...He's the opposite of abusive. Alex: So, if we pull up your medical records we're not gonna find a bunch of old broken bones or...Rose: If you pull up my medical records, you'll find three natural child births, three C-sections, two hospital stays for exhaustion, and one for dehydration because I was so busy chasing my kids around I forgot to take a sip of water for three days. I think God understands what I'm going through. And I think God will forgive me. But Chris...For him, religion isn't like a buffet table where you get to choose what you want to take and leave the rest. And the Pope says no to birth control, so...I need your help. Alex: You don't need our help. Your husband's not abusing you. And you don't get to lie to him and blame it on the Pope. (Outside Rose's room)Addison: Dr. Karev. Alex: No offense, but I have no interest in obstetrics or gynecology, Dr. Shepherd. So if you want to throw me off the case, feel free. Addison: Dr. Karev, I may be a board certified OB/GYN but I also have fellowships in maternal fetal medicine and medical genetics and I'm one of the foremost neonatal surgeons in this country. When you can top that, you can mouth off. Until then, you will do your job and you will do it right, which at this point in time means you keep your mouth shut unless I give you permission to open it. Understood? Understood? Alex: Oh, are you giving me permission now?(Derek, George and Izzie enter Ms. Graber's room.)Derek: Good morning, Ms. Graber. Ms. Graber: Oh, really? "Good morning?" You haven't let me sleep in three nights. Derek: Hmm. Ms. Graber: And this ridiculous hat is destroying my self esteem and I still haven't had a seizure. But, ok, sure, we'll go with "Good morning" if it makes you feel better about yourself. Derek: Ms. Graber is here for brain mapping. Dr. Stevens?Izzie: Brain mapping, um it's where you locate the area of the brain where the seizures originate and surgically remove it with minimal damage to the surrounding tissue. Derek: Excellent. Ms. Graber: Excellent, except for the fact that it's not working, and I'm losing billable hours. Unless any of you are looking to get out of a bad marriage? (Derek, George and Izzie have looks on their faces.)George and Izzie: No. Ms. Graber: Dr. Shepherd?Derek: Yes. No. I'm fine, thank you. Ms. Graber: Really?Derek: Yes. Ms. Graber: Cause I'm an excellent divorce attorney. Derek: I'm sure you are. Ms. Graber: And there was a look. Between these two. Derek: A look?Izzie: No. No look. Ms. Graber: What is it? You married young and now you have nothing in common? Oh, no, don't tell me. I know. The conversation is still good but the sex has gone to pot. (Outside Ms. Graber's room.)Izzie: Make her seize? How do we make someone have a seizure?Derek: Do your research. Get creative. George: Well, if all the normal methods have failed, then...what are we supposed to do?Derek: Use a strobe light. Get her drunk. Hang her from the ceiling upside down and hit with a Wiffle Ball bat for all I care. Ok? Just make her seize. Because until she seizes, I don't know where to operate. And if I don't know where to operate, I can't get this woman out of my life. And this woman is not how I like to start my mornings. (George and Izzie are sitting a computers, researching.)Izzie: I'm just curious, George. Curious George. Get it? Never mind. All I'm asking is where you live. George: Listen to this, there's an old school arcade game that's been know to induce seizures if you reach level 53. Izzie: Our divorce lawyer is so not playing an arcade game for 53 levels. Oh, George, by the way, um, where do you live?George: I'm busy doctoring, Dr. Stevens. No time for chitchat. (Callie enters)Callie: Morning, Dr. O'Malley.George: Uh...morning, Dr. Torres. Callie: Hmm. So, guess what. (They begin talking and laughing in hushed tones, while Izzie looks on.)Izzie: Dr. O'Malley, how's all the doctoring going? (Eugene is playing his violin, Burke is watching on)Eugene: You tell me. Burke: It's an honor to hear you play. Eugene: Too good a man to lie. I'll read your mind: his timing is off. His rhythm is off. This man has no business calling himself Eugene Foote. Burke: You understand, sir, that in the months since the initial surgery, scar tissue has formed around the pacemaker. Removing it is not nearly as simple as it sounds. Eugene: I picked up the violin at six years old. It was in my grandfather's attic. I didn't even know what it was. But I remember picking it up. That moment. I remember putting the bow to the strings and pulling. Just that. Just that screechy little chirp. And that was it. I was hooked. You remember a moment like that in your life? I know this surgery could kill me. I also know you're the best, which makes you my best shot of survival. I'd like you to be the one to operate, Dr. Burke. But if you won't, I'll find someone who will. (Burke and Cristina are walking down stairs in the hospital.)Burke: He's right. Cristina: What? He can't play?Burke: He can't play like Eugene Foote. Cristina: Ok. So, uh, surgery?Burke: He says he will go somewhere else if I refuse. I might let him. Cristina: Why? Oh, you can't let him go somewhere else. What are you...? Ok, what if it were you? What if you couldn't be a surgeon anymore? Or...Or you could still be one, but...but not a great one. Just average. He can get his surgery somewhere else. But that surgeon might be average. (Meredith and Bailey are in Denny's room.)Meredith: EKG, ECHO, and nuclear all within normal limits. Bailey: Denny, in that case, I see no reason why you can't be up walking. Denny: Music to my ears, Dr. Bailey.Bailey: Good. So, you have any questions?Denny: No. It's...Bailey: We can put it off. No harm in waiting a few weeks if you have questions. If you're worried. Denny: I've got 20 tubes coming out of my body, one of which goes directly into my you-know-what. At some point I'd like to use that you-know-what for something besides peeing into a bag. Like, for instance, peeing into a toilet. It's just...Izzie gave me medical advice. You're giving me different advice. It just so happens that yours is the advice I want to hear. Meredith: Well, Dr. Bailey outranks Dr. Stevens. So, it's safe to say Dr. Bailey's advice is the one to follow. (Meredith gives Denny a "shut up" look.) Bailey: That's not what he's worried about, Dr. Grey. He's worried that Dr. Stevens might get her ego bruised and her feelings hurt, am I right? Denny: (glances at Meredith) No, no. Definitely no. Bailey: Because, it would concern me if you were making medical decisions based on how our Dr. Stevens might feel about it. Denny: Well, in that case, I say we do this thing. Screw that dizzy blonde doctor girl. Bailey: That's not helping, Denny. Denny: No?Meredith and Bailey: No. (Outside Denny's room)Bailey: What's going on between Stevens and Denny? Is it a crush? Is it an innocent flirtation? Or is Stevens actually crossing the line? Meredith: I know she likes him. I can't imagine Izzie would do that. Bailey: Uh-huh. I couldn't imagine you and Yang would be stupid enough to fall for your attendings, but I was wrong about that, wasn't I? Meredith: I'm knitting these days. Plus, I'm thinking about accepting a date with a veterinarian. Bailey: Grey. Do you actually believe I care?Meredith: No. Bailey: Good. Maybe you're not so stupid after all. (George and Izzie are in Ms. Graber's room.)Ms. Graber: Explain to me one more time exactly what this is supposed to do. George: Having the TV this close makes the flickering and flashing bigger and more intense, which can cause seizures. Ms. Graber: Oh. Normally I don't have time to watch TV, but this week I've discovered Oprah. You know, she's famous in my business for never marrying that boyfriend of hers. Wise, wise woman. (George and Izzie sit on a couch in the room while Ms. Graber watches the TV.)Izzie: So, first you won't tell me where you live and now I'm on the outside of your inside jokes, with Callie. When did I end up on the outside, George? George: You're not on the outside. Izzie: Ok, now you're lying. To my face. George: You're being paranoid. Ms. Graber: Well, I'm not seizing. But I am having an acid flashback. Does that count?(Addison and Alex are in Rose Wade's room.)Addison: Rose...Seven kids...it's a lot. Are you sure that Chris isn't feeling the same way? When we were first married, we were so broke that I went on the pill, for a while. And Chris stopped taking Communion. When he does that, he thinks he's... Alex: Thinks he's going to hell. He thinks you're both going to hell. Rose: The reason we haven't had a baby in four years is because we abstained for three. Now can you imagine not being able to make love to your husband? Addison: Um...the, uh...pill...Rose: I can't hide the pill. He would find out. Alex: If he found out, what? I mean, he won't divorce you. He doesn't believe in that. Rose: Do you see the way he's looking at me, right now?Addison: Dr. Karev was just leaving. Rose: No, no, no. Just...just look at him for a minute. That look he has on his face, that's how my husband would look at me if he knew about any of this. And I can't have my husband look at me like that. And I can't have any more babies. (Izzie, Cristina and Meredith are sitting around a nurse's station.)Izzie: For the record? I am on your side today. George sucks. Cristina: Hmm. Burke doesn't think so. He's his new best friend. Izzie: I wonder if Burke knows where he lives. How's Denny doing? Bailey's not caving in on the LVAD thing, is she?Meredith: About that...I thought Alex was kidding when he said you dumped him for a heart patient. Did you really dump him for a heart patient? Izzie: Of course not. Meredith: Because Denny's a patient. We can't fall for our patients. Cristina: You're falling for a vet. Meredith: I'm considering the possibility of maybe having a date with a vet. Cristina: That's all I'm saying. Meredith: My point is, Bailey's on the warpath about you and Denny. So just be careful.(OR, Rose's baby has just been delivered.)Addison: How's the sponge count, Dr. Karev?Alex: There all accounted for, but I see a bleeder here. Addison: It's small. Get the Bovie and cauterize it. Alex: I got it. Addison: That's good. Uh, there's a little bleeding near the tube here. Can you hand me the Bovie, Dr. Karev?Alex: I don't see any abnormal bleeding. Addison: Are you the surgeon here?Alex: No. Addison: Then give me the Bovie. Give me the Bovie, Dr. Karev.(Rose's room, Addison and Alex are there)Addison: Hey there, Joseph. Welcome to the world. Rose, before we bring your family in to see you, I wanted to let you know that there was a complication with your surgery. We had some unexpected bleeding that caused damage to both fallopian tubes. Rose: So you're saying...?Addison: You won't be able to have any more children. Rose: Thank you, Dr. Shepherd. Addison: As I said, it was...a complication. Rose: I understand. (Alex and Addison leave the room.)Alex: A complication? That's what you're calling it?Addison: That's what it was. Alex: Really? Cause in that case, it's one of the most bizarre obstetric complications in history. Addison: She is our patient. Our obligation is to her and her only. (Meredith enters the elevator where Derek is.)Meredith: Hey. Derek: Well, hey. Meredith: Uh, you picked up Doc?Derek: Yeah. He's home. Meredith: He seems to be doing much better. Derek: He seems to be doing good. Meredith: (Laughing) I'm not laughing at you. Derek: No.Meredith: No, it's just, you know, bad sex isn't really something that wives want announced to the dirty ex-mistress. Derek: You're not the dirty ex-mistress. You're her friend. She's your friend. I'm your friend. We're all...friends. Meredith: But you didn't tell her. Derek: No. How's your day going?Meredith: Great. Derek: Good. Meredith: The vet asked me if we...Derek: What? What did he ask you?Meredith: If we were together. Derek: Uh-huh. Meredith: And I set him straight. (The elevator opens)Derek: Good day, Meredith. Meredith: You too, Derek. (Ms. Graber's room.)Ms. Graber: I'm not drinking another shot of espresso. I can't. George: You can. You're the best divorce attorney in Seattle. Izzie: The best. George: You can kick that espresso shot's ass. Izzie: Kick it. George: Kick it. Both: Kick it, kick! Yeah!Ms. Graber: Whoa, whoa, whoa! Ok, good. So, caffeine's for seizures. What's the doughnuts for?Izzie: They are to absorb some of the coffee so it doesn't burn a hole through your stomach. Ms. Graber: Good. Ok, good idea. Mm. Oh. Do you know how long it has been since I have had a doughnut? I really, really, really, really, really like doughnuts. George: Well then, why don't you eat them?Ms. Graber: Got to stay on top of my game. No time for exercise. No carbs. No sugar. Can't have a sugar crash in court. You know, stupid court. Court is stupid because I love doughnuts. (Derek enters)Izzie: You're making really good progress. (Bailey and Meredith are in Denny's room. Richard enters.)Denny: Hey there, Chief. You here for my big moment?Richard: Yeah, I'm looking forward to it, Denny. (He starts looking over Bailey's shoulder.)Bailey: Is there something I can do for you, Chief?Richard: His EKG? Bailey: Normal. As well as his ECHO and nuclear study. Richard: Mm-hmm. His perfusion?Bailey: He's ready, Chief. Richard: Well, looking good. Carry on. Bailey: Thank you, sir. (Ms. Graber's room, she is playing a video game.)Ms. Graber: Die! Die! Oh, yeah! Oh, yeah! Next level. I'm at the next level. God, this is exhilarating! George: Good. Keep going. Keep going. You only have 12 more levels before you reach prime seizure potential. Izzie: This is fun. Yeah, right? You know? Like fun that we had at home back when you used to tell me things. Like where you live?George: Don't start that again. Izzie: I'm not starting anything, I'm just saying, there's fun to be had. All the time, with me, your best friend. George: It's not like we're in high school. Izzie: George, don't do the whispering under your breath thing. If you've got something to say, say it. George: Yeah, last time you gave me that advice it went really well. Izzie: You're seriously pissed at me because of what happened between you and Meredith?George: No. Yeah. (Eugene's surgery, violin music is playing.)Burke: Oh. He recorded this at the Hollywood Bowl a couple years ago. Cristina: It's nice. Burke: It's not nice. It's brilliant.(Mr. Ward walks up to Alex at the nurse's station.)Mr. Ward: Excuse me. You were one of my wife's doctors, weren't you? Rose Ward?Alex: Yes, I was. Mr. Ward: She just told me there was a complication with her C-section. (George and Izzie are in Ms. Graber's room, arguing.)Izzie: I told you to tell her how you feel, I did not tell you to jump into bed with her. George: Whatever you told me... Ms. Graber: Adultery.George: Why did you send me in there? Was it to humiliate me?Izzie: No...George: I mean, if you knew she didn't love me, why? What kind of friend does that?(Alex and Mr. Ward at the nurse's station.)Mr. Ward: It's just...it was shocking. Someone says there's a complication and everything changes. (Denny's room, he is sitting up, wheezing.)Denny: I...can't...breathe. Richard: Are all those batteries...Bailey: Yes, they're charged. I checked them myself. Meredith: He's having runs of V-tach. Richard: Could be an air embolism. Bailey: I got it. (Eugene's surgery.)Burke: Damn it. We got to tamponade. Nurse: BP's not registering. Burke: Keep transfusing PRBCs. He has a full ventricular perforation. Hand me a 2-0 prolene. Cristina. Replace my hand with yours. Yes. And hold on for dear life. (George and Izzie in Ms. Graber's room, still arguing.)Izzie: You didn't want to hear it. George: Yes, I...Ms. Graber: Oh, some denial. I can work with that. Izzie: You wanted to keep on loving her, George. You did not want to hear it. (Denny's room)Meredith: Should we intubate?Richard: We'll call respiratory to do it. (Mr. Ward and Alex)Mr. Ward: Rose says it's a blessing. It's God's will. Maybe it is. Alex: Maybe it is. A blessing, I mean. This complication. (Eugene's OR)Cristina: His heart's not moving at all. Burke: Keep compressing as I was doing.Doctor: There's no signs of life. Blood pressure is nonexistent. (Denny's room)Richard: Ok, the tubing could be kinked. We need to move him to the OR. Bailey: Sir, I got this. Richard: Well, it doesn't look like you've got this. Bailey: I've got this. (Ms. Graber's room)Izzie: Oh, my God! You knew the risks! You knew she was in love with someone else... Ms. Graber: I'm getting an aura. Izzie: No! I am not saying that what she did wasn't wrong. I am just saying that you need to take a tiny piece of responsibilty...(Ms. Graber starts seizing)George: She's seizing. Go page, Shepherd. (Alex and Mr. Ward)Alex: This complication might be God's way of helping you put your seven kids through college. Mr. Ward: What are you saying?Alex: I'm saying get a lawyer. (Alex walks away.)(Denny starts breathing normally)(Eugene flatlines)Burke: Time of death: 18:32. (Meredith is in Denny's room checking on him)Meredith: Everything looks good, Denny. Denny: Well, you gotta thank Dr. Bailey for me. I mean, I already thanked her once, but this here deserves a double scoop. Meredith: I know I don't know you very well. Denny: You want to talk to me about Izzie?Meredith: Yeah. Denny: Because you disapprove?Meredith: No. This comes from nothing resembling a high horse. High horses want nothing to do with me. You know, this thing with you and Izzie, it's...there are strict rules about doctors dating patients. Denny: You know Izzie pretty well, right? You think if I went to her and I said, "Hey, you know, this is going to be really bad for your career." "You probably shouldn't come round and see me anymore," you think that'll have any effect at all? The thing is, I was healthy my whole life until I wasn't. And for the last year, I've had a lot of time to lay around in bed and think about my life. And the things that I remember best? Well, those are the things that I wasn't supposed to do and I did them anyway. So the thing is, Meredith...life is too damn short to be following these rules. (Richard and Bailey are in the hallway)Bailey: May I ask what motive you had for undermining my authority in front of my patient and intern?Richard: I'm not punishing you, Dr. Bailey. Bailey: But you are. I mean, I had a baby. And so you are. Richard: Yes, you had a baby. And now you're sleep deprived. Bailey: Every doctor in this hospital is sleep deprived. Richard: You just came back from maternity leave, and I'm not convinced you're back on your game. This is not a punishment or a reflection on how highly I value you. It's just the way it is. (Nurse walks up and points to Mr. Ward.)Nurse: I'm sorry to interrupt, Chief. But that man over there is asking to talk to you. Richard: Excuse me. (Vet's office, Finn is there when Meredith enters.)Meredith: Hey. Finn: I thought you were knitting a sweater. Meredith: I am. But I'm also dating. You. If you still want to. I should've called, you know. I was going to call...Finn: No, no. Uh...don't call. Never call. Always show up. Meredith: Ok. Finn: Ok. But I can't tonight. I've got an errand I have to run. Meredith: I run errands. (They enter a stable)Finn: This shouldn't take too long. And we can grab dinner right after. Meredith: After?Finn: After she gives birth. Meredith: We're birthing a horse?Finn: Yeah. Meredith: That was your errand? You're birthing a horse?Finn: Yeah. I guess I could've mentioned it before. But, you know, I didn't want to scare you back to your knitting. She's getting anxious. You can wait back here. Meredith: Back here? Finn: If you want, I mean. It gets a little messy. Meredith: Are you kidding? I want to birth a horse. (Addison walks up to the nurse's station where Richard is standing.)Addison: Richard, we have to talk about Alex Karev. I know he's talented, but his attitude, in my opinion, has reached an unacceptable low. Richard: Addison. You've got a bigger problem today than Alex Karev. Mr. Ward has been speaking with our attorney regarding his wife's surgery. Now I read your chart. I read the nurse's notes. Now, can you explain to me what kind of complication from a C-section leads to the severing of both fallopian tubes? (Derek is in Ms. Graber's room)Derek: Well, the bad news is...you had a grand mal seizure. The good news is we mapped it, so now we can operate. Mrs. Graber: No. I've decided against surgery, Dr. Shepherd. Derek: I'm sorry. Mrs. Graber. No offense. The risks of craniotomy...when you described them, they're not terribly appealing. Derek: Yes, there are risks. But you have to weigh those risks with the uh, detrimental effect your seizure disorder has on your life. Ms. Graber: Unless my life is having a detrimental effect on my seizure disorder. It's like with you and your wife: is the bad sex your biggest problem or are all the bigger problems causing the bad sex? Derek: I'm, uh...I'm not going to answer that. Ms. Graber: All right, my point is, I had more fun today that I can remember. I don't have any friend. I don't have any fun. I only have work. Work and seizures. And it's no coincidence that when the work stopped, the seizures stopped. Until these two started arguing. Derek: All right, I'm gonna talk to them about that. Ms. Graber: No, you don't get it. Watching people fight...oh. It's been my whole life for 15 years. So, I'm changing my life. Look and if that doesn't work, I'll come back here and let you cut open my brain, ok? Derek: All right. Fair enough. (Stable, baby foal stands up.)Finn: It's pretty good, huh?Meredith: Yeah, it's pretty good. (Addison enters Rose Ward's room)Addison: How're you feelingRose: A little sore. Addison: Oh, that's to be expected. Rose: I'm sorry I told Chris about the complication. I just...I just thought he should know that Joseph would be our last. So he could savor it. I didn't know he was going to do this. Addison: Rose. I need you to tell him that you asked me to tie your tubes. Rose: For you, it's just insurance. And you don't even have to pay. For me, it's my marriage. It's my family. Addison: It's my career, Rose. It's my reputation. Rose: You're the best. People come from all over the country to see you. That won't change. I can't tell him. Dr. Shepherd...I'm so sorry because I am so grateful to you. But I can't tell him. (Burke is in a scrub room, he is listening to Eugene's music)(Finn's apartment)Finn: Is it coming off?Meredith: Not exactly. Finn: I'm sorry. Meredith: Oh, don't be. It was a great date. Finn: Technically it wasn't the date. It was the errand. Now...we could go up to my place. I could cook for you. Meredith: Go up to your place?Finn: Well, do you want to come up to my place?Meredith: Yeah. I mean, no. No, I don't. I...I do. But I don't. Finn: You don't know?Meredith: No, I do. I mean, I...I know. No, I don't. Finn: All right, well, here's the deal. Um...you have two options. You could come up to my place, take off all your clothes, shower off the goo, borrow one of my shirts, and I'll cook you dinner. That's door number one Door number two...you go home. I think you ought to take door one, because, you know. It involves you naked in my apartment. But, you know...that's just me. Meredith: I should point out that there's absolutely nothing you could say that would make me go upstairs with you. I'm kind of offended that you think that I would go upstairs with you. And you should know that I am celibate. So... Finn: Shut up. Meredith: I absolutely cannot have...sex with you. Finn: If you choose door number one, I absolutely will not have sex with you. Meredith: You won't?Finn: I promise I won't. I won't even try to kiss you. Meredith: Why not?Finn: Meredith.Meredith: What?Finn: Choose door number one. MVO: A wise man once said, "You can have anything in life, if you will sacrifice everything else for it."(Ms. Graber's room, she is packing to go home.)George: I hope it works. You changing your life. Ms. Graber: So do I. George: Ok. Ms. Graber: Hey, George. I don't know much but I do know fighting. And people who fight like you and Izzie...those people love each other. She misses her friend. MVO: What he meant is, nothing comes without a price. (Addison walks past Alex in a stairway.)Alex: The road to hell is paved with good intentions. MVO: So before you go into battle, you better decide how much you're willing to lose. Addison: Dr. Karev. You did such a good job today that I'm going to talk to Dr. Bailey and have you assigned to my service. Alex: What? For how long?Addison: For as long as I want. Your ass is mine until I say otherwise. Congratulations. Izzie is in Denny's room. He is standing at the doorway)Izzie: You got it. Denny: I did indeed. Izzie: And you're ok?Denny: Are you kidding me? I'm great. I mean look at this. Some nice sized batteries, colorful wires. It's what your best dressed LVAD patients are wearing these days, you know? Izzie: Really? Because it seems so last fall. (They hug)Izzie: You're tall. Denny: I know. (Bailey walks up and sees them hugging.)MVO: Too often, going after what feels good, means letting go of what you know is right. (Cristina sits down on the bed next to Burke)Cristina: You did everything you could. Burke: There was an interview that Eugene gave. I saved it. I taped it to my bathroom mirror. He said that he wasn't the most talented student at music school. But he said what he lacked in natural ability he made up for in discipline. He practiced. All the time. All the time, he practiced. I wasn't like you. I wasn't the most talented student in school. I wasn't the brightest. But I was the best. Cristina: You practiced. Burke: I practiced. MVO: And letting someone in means abandoning the walls you've spent a lifetime building. (Derek carries Doc into Finn's place.)Derek: I got home he was listless and hadn't eaten all day.Finn: Oh, no. Lets have a look. (Meredith walks down the stairs and sees Derek standing there. She has obviously just gotten out of the shower.)MVO: Of course the toughest sacrifices are the ones we don't see coming. Meredith: Hey. Derek: Hey. (Derek gives her a look)Meredith: Is he sick again?Derek: Yeah. (George enters Meredith's house with Callie right behind him)Izzie: George! Hey. George. Hey. Izzie: Oh, hi. Callie: Hey. George: So we spent the night at Callie's last night, so we figured we'd just spend the night here. Izzie: Um, ok. So, um...you're back then just...for tonight?George: Well, Callie's here for the night. I'm, uh...I don't know. It's my room, you know. I pay rent. Izzie: Welcome home. MVO: When we don't have time to come up with a strategy, to pick a side or measure the potential loss. (Derek enters the trailer where Addison is. Derek starts undressing.)Addison: You would not believe the day I had. I went out of my way to give a patient exactly what she wants, only to have it explode in my face. I mean, lawsuit, threats, Richard's pissed. Don't even get me started about Alex Karev. Derek: Get in the shower. Addison: What?Derek: Get in the shower with me. Addison: Honey, it's a very small shower. Derek: You want to have hot sex?(He is naked and she starts taking her clothes off quickly.)Addison: Thank you. MVO: When that happens, when the battle chooses us, and not the other way around, that's when the sacrifice can turn out to be more than we can bear. (They enter the shower and can be seen pressing up against the glass.)2x24: Damage CaseOriginal Airdate: 5/7/2006Written by: Mimi SchmirDirected by: Tony Goldwyn(Seattle Scenes)MVO: We all go through life like bulls in a china shop. (Finn's house, Meredith is watching him make breakfast.)MVO: A chip here, a crack there. Doing damage to ourselves. To other people. Meredith: So, uh, I don't cook. Finn: Nobody asked you to cook. Meredith: I know, I'm just saying that, you know, I don't cook, so you don't have to cook. I don't expect you to cook for me. Finn: Ok. You. Sit there. Sit down. I want you to drink this and try really hard to act like you aren't scary and damaged. Meredith: I'm not scary and damaged. Finn: Yeah, you are. Meredith: No. I'm not scary or damaged. Finn: Mm-hmm. All right. Why don't you tell me about your family?Meredith: Ok. Me not wanting to talk about my family does not make me scary or damaged. Finn: Ok. Tell me about the last guy you slept with. MVO: The problem is trying to figure out how to control the damage we have done. Or that's been done to us. (Bathroom at Meredith's house)Izzie: What did you say to him?Meredith: Nothing. I fled the scene. Izzie: You didn't tell him about George or Derek?Meredith: No. Izzie: Hmm. You like him. Meredith: I could like him. Izzie: Is the sex any good?Meredith: I don't know. Izzie: Four dates and two sleepovers at his place and no sex?Meredith: Not even a kiss good night. Izzie: Oh, I am proud. I am like a proud mama. Meredith: Shut up. (Callie enters the bathroom in only her underwear.)Callie: Morning. MVO: Sometimes the damage catches us by surprise. (She goes to the bathroom then leaves.)Meredith: Oh, my God. Did that just happen?Izzie: I'm having a seizure. I am clearly mid-seizure. I'm seizing. Meredith: Oh, my God. Izzie: She didn't even wash her hands. Meredith: Oh, my God. MVO: Sometimes we think we can fix the damage. (SGH, ER)Izzie: All I'm saying, George, is that if she needs to pee she could as least wear a bra. Or maybe wait until she's alone. And for the love of every sanitary, could she just wash her hands? She's a surgeon. George: You said yourself you guys were blocking the sink. I think you're exaggerating. Izzie: She peed. Naked peeing. Ask Meredith. Meredith?(They walk up to Cristina, Alex and Meredith who are sitting in the ambulance bay.)Izzie: That's right, I forgot, you're not talking to her. George: Oh!Izzie: If you were she would tell you that Callie crosses the line. So crossed the line. So freaking crossed. Alex: Oh. Were still pretending that you're not seeing a patient, right?Cristina: People, what's with all the evil misery? Huh? Live and let live. George: You're cheerful. Cristina: Oh, come on. Izzie: You are. How's that possible?Cristina: I scrubbed in on a four hour parasophageal hernia last night. Then I got laid. And now, three ambulances are coming in full of bloody broken car crash victims, all who need to be cut open. So, I'm cheery! I'm cheery! I'm cheery! MVO: And sometimes the damage is something we can't even see. Cristina: I'm cheerful!(Derek walks up)Cristina: Sorry, sir, I...Meredith: Hey. Derek: How's my dog?Meredith: Much better. Finn's running tests. Derek: Good. Meredith: Our dog. Derek: What?Meredith: Our dog. You said "my dog." He's our dog. Derek: Yeah, whatever. Meredith: Are you mad at me or something?Derek: Now's not the time. (Izzie is entering a trauma room with a Noah Reynolds)Izzie: 25-year-old restrained driver Noah Reynolds. Vitals stable. Chief complaint: right knee pain. Bailey: Curtain three. (Another gurney is being wheeled in)Melanie: Noah, you still alive. Noah: I'm still alive, baby! My wife's side took all of the impact. Her parents were in the other car. Some jerk slammed into them and then they slammed into us. Izzie: On three. One. Two. Three. (Cristina is with Melanie, Noah's wife.)Paramedic: 22-year-old pregnant restrained passenger T-boned on her side. Prolonged extrication in the field. BP 90 over 50. Pulse in the 80s. Bailey: Trauma room one. Melanie: Trauma? No, I'm fine. Really. You don't have to go to all that trouble, mercy no. I am fine. The air bags went off. If you could just check on my baby and the rest of my family. My husband. Noah? You saw Mama breathing, right? And Daddy? Where the hell's Daddy? Mama and Daddy are still alive, right? Noah: They're in the next ambulance right behind us. Melanie: They're still alive, right?Cristina: Please don't move, ma'am. Melanie: Mama and Daddy, I need to know. Cristina: Yeah, I'll ask someone about...Mama. Melanie: And Daddy. (George enters with two more gurneys, containing Jim and Millie.)George: Driver and front-seat passenger both early 50s, both restrained, both stable. The passenger has some leg and arm pain, the driver is complaining of chest pain. Millie: Dang it all to heck. Excuse my French, honey, but I need some whatever kind of horse pills you've got because this hurts like the dickens! (Jim, Millie, Noah and his wife are all yelling back and forth to each other.)(Melanie's room)Cristina: Uh, that would be Mama? Melanie: Mama! You ok?(Millie's room)Millie: I am in pain. (Jim's room, he is fighting doctors to get off the gurney)Jim: Get off. Get off!George: Sir, I need to clear your spine. Jim: My spine is fine and you can sew up my head later. Where's my girl?Melanie: Daddy?Jim: Millie?Noah: Jim?Millie: Mel?Melanie: Mama?Bailey: (To herself) The hillbilly picnic. (Jim runs into Melanie's room)Cristina: Could everybody shut up for a minute? I'm trying to find a fetal heartbeat, hold on. Melanie: Is the baby ok? Cristina: Hold on. The baby's heart rate is 152 and strong. It's...it's ok. Jim: They're both good. They're good. Millie: Thank the Lord. Thank the Lord they're all right. (Meredith enters with another gurney)Meredith: Dr. Bailey, another car crash victim. Millie: That's him! That's the guy who hit us. Jim: I'll kill him, I'm gonna get you. Richard: Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Jim: You son of a bitch. Millie: Big Jim, just hold your horses. He's hurt. He's already hurt. Jim: Good!Melanie: Daddy?Jim: Don't ask me to be neighborly! He slammed into us. Bailey: Trauma three. Page Ortho and Neuro. O'Malley, give her a hand. Marshall: What happened?Millie: Whoa, whoa, whoa. What do you think you are you doing, young man?Alex: I'm just trying to examine you. Millie: I don't think so. (whispers) I don't have any panties on. I do not know you well enough to let you see my good girl. Get me a lady doctor. Alex: I need a chick over here!(Trauma 3)Marshall: What happened?Meredith: Marshall Stone, surgical intern at Mercy West. Marshall: What happened?Derek: Page Ortho to look at his wrist and let CT know we're coming.George: Yes, Dr. Shepherd. Derek: Marshall, I'm going to say three words to you, ok? And then I want you to repeat them back to Dr. Grey. Can you do that?Marshall: Ok. Derek: Ok. Bat, orange, car. You think you can remember that?Marshall: Mm-hmm. Derek: Good. Ok. Here. He has a closed head injury. Watch for vomiting, confusion and loss of consciousness, ok?Meredith: All right. Derek: Good. Meredith: Derek?Derek: Not now. Let me know when you get the CT report back. (Derek leaves)Meredith: Marshall,...can you remember those words?Marshall: What happened?(CT viewing room)George: And this is the father, Big Jim. I don't call him Big Jim. The family, they call him Big Jim. Alex: Oh, stupid hicks. George: Really? Being Southern makes you stupid? Do you know that he owns half of Alabama. Izzie: Yeah. And I bet he even washes his hands after he pees. George: That's uncalled for. Bailey: This is a place of business. Discharge the mother, discharge the father. George: Yes, Dr. Bailey. Bailey: Karev, get the husband to the OR for surgery. (Addison enters)Addison: Dr. Karev, there you are. You're supposed to be up on OB/GYN rounding on my patients. Alex: Oh, yeah, I got paged. 911. Pregnant mom. Car accident. Very serious. Addison: Pity. I've got three surgeries on the board. I was gonna ask you to scrub in, but I guess you should stay by that pregnant lady's side all day. You see to it, Dr. Bailey? Bailey: Karev, go find your patient. Stevens, scrub in on Noah's patella fracture. Alex: The She-Shepherd just walks in here and pulls me off surgery? Bailey: You burn the She-Shepherd, she burns back. Go. (Melanie is getting ready for CT scan.)Melanie: The CT won't hurt the baby or nothing, right?Cristina: No, it won't hurt the baby...or nothing. Ok, on three. One, two, three, up. Melanie: I was having a shower today. A baby shower. That's why Mama and Daddy are in town. Because I'm having a baby. How nice is that? Cristina: Nice. Melanie: Isn't it?Cristina: Mm-hmm. (Alex enters) What are you doing here?Alex: I'm captain of the vagina squad. Cristina: Oh, this nice man is going to take care of you now and he really like to talk, so chat away. Melanie: It was nice meeting you. Alex: Not cool, Yang. Melanie: What does she mean? Captain? And what kind of squad are you on?(Marshall's room)George: Uh, you shouldn't be reading your own chart. Marshall: I want to find out what caused me to swerve my car into oncoming traffic and not be able to remember it. Hey, those people, the ones I hit, they're going to be ok, right? No serious complications? George: Uh, they're still checking them out. (George goes to leave and Izzie enters)Izzie: Do. Torres?Callie: Yeah?Izzie: I was told you're performing the Noah Reynolds surgery. Callie: Yes. Izzie: Well, I'm your intern. So, whenever you're ready. Callie: Ok, well, head up and prep the OR. I need to put on a splint. (Izzie leaves)George: Um...did you wash your hands?Callie: What?George: You washed your hands, right?Callie: Of course I washed my hands. George: No. No. Of course you did. Callie: Um, Marshall, this is going to hurt a little bit, ok?Marshall: My ETOH and tox screens were pristine, so I wasn't drinking or...under the influence. Ow. (Derek enters)Derek: Ok, we get the CT result back yet?Meredith: Not yet. Marshall: My GCS was 13. Why haven't I had a CT?Derek: Dr. Grey?Meredith: CT was backed up. And he's lucid now, so...Derek: So get it done! Now!(Cristina walks up to a nurse's station where Burke is)Cristina: Hey. Daisy Duke's case was boring me to tears. So, um, you got any good hearts that I can cut open? Or, you know, bad hearts that we can make good? (Burke walks away, Cristina follows him)Cristina: Burke? Use words. Burke: You fell asleep. Cristina: When?Burke: This morning. In the on-call room. Cristina: I fell asleep after we, you know...Burke: Not after. Not after. Cristina: Oh. Oh. I'm...sorry. I...I was really tired. Seriously. Seriously, my bad. I'm really sorry. Don't let this threaten your manhood. Burke: Oh, this is not...I am very confident in my manhood, thank you very much. Cristina: Well good, you should be, because I mean...I fell asleep because I had already finished. Twice. Burke: I hadn't finished. Cristina: I was tired. It's not like I did this on purpose. Burke: Oh, did you stay in the hospital last night on purpose? Because you weren't even on call. Cristina: It was a paraesopageal hernia. I had never seen one. You know what, I'm a surgeon first, just like you. Burke: No. No. Not just like me. I am a person first. (Izzie is walking down a hallway)Izzie: Someone page me? Denny?Nurse: He collapsed. Izzie: What happened?Denny: Too far, too fast. Izzie: What were you doing?Denny: Stairs. Real bright, huh?Izzie: Your LVAD battery is almost dead. Um, get him to his room, I'll get Dr. Burke. Nurse: Let's get him up now. Nice and easy on one, two, three. (Denny's room)Burke: Now, Denny, you knew that LVAD wasn't a cure. Denny: I want to go home. I want to go home yesterday. Burke: I know this is hard to hear, but that's just not an option at this point. Denny: Since when do you get to decide what's an option in my life and what isn't? My heart may be on your battery packs, but it's till my heart. It's my decision. It's my damn life. Burke: That's right. It is your life. And it is your life that is at stake. And it is your life that well end if you continue to push like you did today. Denny: You said the LVAD would make me better. Burke: I told you the LVAD would buy more time. And it will. If you respect it's limitations and your own. Denny: I want to go home. (Izzie and Burke leave the room)Izzie: What do we do?Burke: We put him on a tight leash. Tell the nurses to keep an eye on him. Make sure he doesn't take any more endurance hikes in the stairwell. Izzie: Yeah. But...Preston, what do we do?Burke: The damage to his body we can try to control, but the damage to his spirit...For a man like Denny to lie on this bed for years on end...That's not something we could really understand. And his feelings about it aren't something we should try to control. Give him room, Izzie. Just give him room to grieve. (CT scan viewing room)Cristina: You finally got Melanie to shut up? Alex: Finally. Thanks for that by the way. (Bailey enters)Bailey: How's she doing?CT Tech: Images coming up now. Cristina: Ooh, is that a teardrop fracture?Alex: No head bleed, though. That's good. Cristina: Look at her lungs. Alex: Is that her liver?Cristina: How is she alive?Bailey: Karev, page Shepherd, Burke, Montgomery-Shepherd, the Chief and every surgeon with an available hand and get an OR opened. Go! Melanie? Mel...Get me a stretcher. Let's pull her out of there now! Melanie? (Callie walks into the hall and runs into George)Callie: Hey, have you seen Izzie? She was supposed to prep an OR for Noah's surgery and she completely bailed. (George walks by without saying anything)Callie: What?George: Mr. and Mrs. Johnson?Jim: Dr. O'Malley. Millie: That little girl right there says she's going to fix Noah's leg all by herself. And she just gave him a big old shot for his pain. I really like her. George: Mr. and Mrs. Johnson? Big Jim?Millie: Is it Mel?George: Yes, ma'am, it is. Jim: What? What?George: When your daughter came into the OR, her body was over-pumping her bloodstream, with adrenaline, which kept her conscious and alert and, uh, pain-free. During the CT scan, she was lying still for an extended period of time and se her body relaxed. And the adrenaline stopped flowing, which allowed her to succumb to the full extent of her injuries, which...they're catastrophic. Millie: Excuse me?(Melanie's OR)Bailey: Bovie. Richard: More suction here. Clamp. Burke: Internal saw. Addison: Karev, sit down. Alex: I can't see. Addison: The only thing I want you to do is sit at that fetal monitor and watch that baby's heartbeat. Alex: So now I'm a baby-sitter?Bailey: Ok, retractor. Richard: Addison, we're ready for you. (Noah's room)George: We are going to do absolutely everything we can. (Melanie's OR)Addison: Uterus is protected. Baby's heartbeat?Alex: 146. Addison: Ok, baby's safe. You can proceed with the mother. Burke: Lungs are damaged pretty badly. Doctor: Pressure just bottomed out. Richard: Let's transfuse. Bailey: Four quadrant packing. Come on, people, get me some lap pads. Richard: Cross clamp the aorta. Burke: Clamp. Got it. Richard: There's too much bleeding, she'll never last. Shepherd?Derek: Damage control. Richard: Addison?Addison: If you want the baby to live, damage control. Richard: Burke?Burke: Damage control. Richard: Everyone knows the rules. We're gonna move as rapidly as possible. Don't worry about finishing repairs. For now we're on crisis management people, just get it done. Once she reaches the triangle, we stop. No exceptions. Alex: Why's he talking about triangle? What triangle?Cristina: Blood stops clotting, her muscles produce acid and her organs get cold. Alex: You're talking about the triangle of death?(Marshall and Meredith are waiting for CT)Marshall: A ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm. Meredith: What?Marshall: I scrubbed in on an abdominal aortic aneurysm. It was a 12 hour surgery. I had already worked 30 hours, but I didn't want to miss it. I fell asleep for...a second behind the wheel. I closed my eyes for a second at the red light. A second. It was only 12 hours. I'd done it before. Meredith: We've all done it before. Marshall: Dr. Grey?Meredith: Meredith.Marshall: Meredith. Marshall: Does this mean...Are we actually saying that, uh...today...this morning...because I stayed in the OR to save a life...I may have killed a pregnant woman? CT Tech: Dr. Grey? You ordered a CT on Marshall Stone?(Meredith stands up to talk to the Tech for a moment)Meredith: We're going to need a moment. CT Tech: I'm backed up here with five patients. Meredith: We need a moment. (Meredith turns around and Marshall is gone.)Meredith: Marshall? Marshall?(Denny's room)Denny: Izzie, please.Izzie: Come on, Denny, just...Denny: Izzie. Izzie: Smell. Smell. Chocolate. And not the crappy, processed, waxy kind, but the really good Swiss chocolate that you get at the gift shop that costs way too much money, but is totally worth it. Try it. And exhibit B. Tabloids. Good old fashioned trashy celebrity gossip rags. Denny: Damn it, Izzie, stop it! Just stop it! You think I'm feeling sorry for myself, right? Poor sad sack Denny just needs a little perspective. Izzie: You do need a little perspective. Denny: You have no idea what it is to lose what I have lost. Izzie: I know loss, Denny. Denny: No you don't! I'm a man. I'm a strong, virile horse of a man stuck in the body of some weak, sick bastard that I don't know, like, or recognize. Now if you knew what that feels like, you would have never convinced me to let a battery run my heart. If you knew what it feels like, Izzie...you would have let me go. (Melanie's OR)Doctor: Systolic's 82, folks. Not getting any better. Bailey: How's the spleen, Chief?Richard: Unsalvageable, I'm afraid. Addison: Karev!Alex: Frequent decels and loss of variability. Addison: The baby's fading. Doctor: PH is down 7.1. Core temp 93 degrees. Richard: Ok, we've reached the triangle, people. Hands out. Bailey: Still oozing. Richard: We're not trying for perfection people. Derek: Just give me a second. Richard: Hands out! Damn it, stop! Everybody stop!Burke: Cristina, let it go. Bailey: Slow. Erratic. But it's a heartbeat. Addison: Baby's holding steady. Burke: Bring out the plastic. Cristina: Plastic? We're not going to close?Bailey: No. We're going to keep her open, cover her with plastic, and get her to the ICU.Alex: And then what?Richard: And then we're gonna see if she survives. (Derek looks up and sees Marshall in the gallery.)(Marshall is getting ready for his CT)Derek: Ok. We'll take care of you, all right?(Derek walks to the viewing room where Meredith is)Derek: How in the hell do you let a patient get that far off your watch?Meredith: I turned my back for a second. Derek: He was in the damned gallery. Meredith: He's a surgical intern at Mercy West...Derek: I don't care if he's the surgeon general. In this hospital, he's a patient with a head injury who needs a CT. in this hospital, he's a scared guy who does not need to see the massive internal injuries of the woman he rammed with his car! This is your fault. You had him and you lost him! You got to take responsibility for your actions for once in your life! Meredith: Derek!(Melanie's ICU room)Bailey: We've given her medications to help her blood clot and to help counteract the acid buildup. We're slowly raising her body temperature with warming blankets, warmed IV fluids, and blood products. Jim: How long is she going to have to be like that? You know, with...open like that?Addison: We want her to regain as much strength as possible before we operate again. But at the same time, we want to repair the damage as soon as possible. So it's a balancing act. Millie: I'm sorry. I don't quite know what you mean. Bailey: Melanie will die if we don't get her back to surgery soon enough and Melanie will die if we take her back to surgery too soon. Millie: A balancing act. Addison: A balancing act. (Bailey walks out of the room)Bailey: Uh, Yang, call me if she starts actively bleeding. Cristina: Ok. (Addison walks out of the room)Addison: Karev. Where are you going?Alex: What? She's in ICU. There's nothing I can do. Addison: You can sit there with her and watch that fetal monitor. Alex: You can't be serious. She's circling the drain. Addison: You know how long a baby can survive inside its dead mother. Four to five minutes. Minutes not seconds, Karev. Look at Melanie. Look at her. Now look around. You see all the doctors and nurses, even her parents. Their sole job is to take care of Melanie. My job is to care for that baby. Now, I've got a surgery scheduled, so when I step foot on that elevator and leave, you are going to be the only person on this entire floor responsible for that baby. Do not let me down, Karev. (Hospital hallway)Izzie: Her organs are bleeding, damaged, exposed, and covered in plastic wrap. Meredith: Poor Marshall. I mean, one minute you're a surgeon, the next you've destroyed an entire family. Izzie: Last month, I fell asleep in the parking lot. On a bench. I literally couldn't even make it to the car. Meredith: I fell asleep at a restaurant. At a table while I was on a date. Cristina: Yeah, well, I fell asleep during sex. (George walks up)George: Izzie. Hey, Callie's looking for you. You blew off her surgery. Izzie: No. I...I had a patient. Denny. I...I had to go. George: You were hanging out with Denny?Izzie: Oh, please. Do not even talk to me about standards. The girl can't even wash her hands. (George walks away, angrily)Cristina: Don't worry about Bambi. If Burke can forgive me for falling asleep during sex, then George can forgive you for crying. Meredith: But Burke hasn't forgiven you. (Noah's room. Callie is checking on his leg. George enters. )George: I found Izzie. She said she had a patient. Callie: I knew you'd take her side. George: What?Callie: He needs an IV.(Callie leaves)George: Are you...Noah: She's mad at you. George: I...I didn't know you were awake. Noah: What did you do?George: Uh, has...has anyone talked to you about your wife? About what's happening?Noah: What's happening? Uh...you know, I can't really, uh, wrap my brain around what's happening. You know, I'm from here. Uh, Seattle. And, uh...you know, I go away to college and I come back married to this big-haired, drawling Southern girl. And everyone I know thinks I'm crazy. But I love her. I just...I love her. And, uh...what's happening is that my...big-haired Southern girl could be dying. And...I can't think about that. You know, I need...I need to think about something else. I mean, it doesn't...matter so much. Something that doesn't...doesn't have me burying my 22-year-old wife and baby. So, uh, so...what the hell did you do? George: I believed my friend when she told me that Dr. Torres doesn't wash her hands. Noah: Well, I hope that's not true. Seeing as she just, uh...performed surgery on me and all. George: Yeah. (Derek enters Marshall's room)Derek: You paged me. Meredith: CT results. Derek: Good, thank you. All right, lets see what we've got here. Marshall, everything checks out fine. Your short-term memory loss was a result from the concussion. But to be safe, I want to keep you here overnight for observation, all right? Marshall: I have to apologize. Derek: What?Marshall: To the woman's family. I have to tell them I'm sorry for what I did. Derek: You should get some rest. (Derek leaves, Meredith follows him and they enter a stairwell.)Meredith: I never should have told you about George. Derek: No, it's fine, I'm glad I know. About him. And the vet. You really get around. Meredith: What did you just say to me?Derek: It's unforgivable. Meredith: I don't remember ever asking you to forgive me. Derek: So was the knitting a phase? Who's next? Alex? Because I hear he likes to sleep around. You two have that in common. (Derek turns to leave, Meredith grabs his arm.)Meredith: You don't get to call me a whore. When I met you, I thought I had found the person that I was going to spend the rest of my life with! I was done. So all the boys and all the bars and all the obvious daddy issues, who cared? Because I was done. You left me. You chose Addison. I'm all glued back together now. I make no apologies for how I chose to repair what you broke. You don't get to call me a whore. Derek: This think with us is finished. It's over. Meredith: Finally. Derek: Yeah. It's done. Meredith: It is done. (Derek leaves going up the stairs and Meredith slowly goes down.)(Melanie's room)Cristina: Her temperature is 95.4 degrees and her pH is 7.28.Burke: Definitely clotting better. But some of the wounds are still oozing. Richard: Well, still a fine line. She may not be quite stable enough. Millie: Y'all don't have to whisper. I'm sitting right here. I can here you anyway. And she's my baby. She's my little girl. It's a big decision like this. Going back in. Sewing up her...organs. It's the kind of decision that a mama ought to be involved in. I mean, all her life, she's asked me everything. From...what color dress she ought to wear to her kindergarten dance to what she ought to name her baby. Because I'm her mama. And it's my job to have an opinion. It's my job to have an answer. I may not have an answer here, but...I'm still her mama. And you just don't have to whisper. Richard: All right. What do you think, Dr. Bailey?Bailey: I think if we wait much longer she'll go into multiple organ failure. Richard: Ok. If it's all right with you, Mrs. Johnson, we think it's time to get back in there and finish what we started. (Melanie's OR)Derek: Ok, I'm done. Richard: Yang. Get in here and start washing out the abdominal cavity. Burke: Bleeding is controlled in the chest. I had to resect a part of her lung but...Alex: Fetal heart rate's down to 80. Richard: Mom's heart rate is slowing down. Doctor: 48 and dropping. Bailey: Ruptured retroperitoneal hematoma. She's bleeding out. Richard: Idioventricular rhythm. Do we have a BP?Doctor: Trying to run it. Nothing's registering. Bailey: Yang, get your hands in here and hold pressure. Alex: Fetal heart rate down to 60. Cristina: Heart's fibrillating. Bailey: Dr. Webber, can you see the source of the bleed?Burke: Hand me the internal paddles. Alex: We're losing the baby.Burke: Charge to 20. Clear. Richard: We're chasing our tails here. Get Addison Shepherd. (Alex enters the OR next door)Alex: Melanie's crashing. Addison: It's right there. Alex: You hear me? She's crashing. Addison: I'm elbow deep in a patient's uterus, Karev. What do you want me to do? Leave this woman and her child to die. Alex: I'm doing my job. Addison: And I'm doing mine. Do what you can, I'll be there as soon as I'm done. Ok, people, let's speed it up. (George is sitting with Noah, Jim and Millie.)Millie: They'll know where to find us...when there's news? They'll know we're here?George: Yes, ma'am. Millie: Good. Ok. Ok. Jim: Is there something I should be doing, someone I should talk with? Something?George: You're doing everything you can do, Big Jim. (Meredith enters the room)Meredith: I know this isn't the best time, but Marshall would very much like the chance to apologize to the family if they'll let him. He's one of us, George. (Alex enters Melanie's OR)Alex: Shepherd's still in surgery. I told her to hurry. Richard: How's her heart?Bailey: Asystole. Alex: How long has she been down?Cristina: Five minutes. Alex: Well, I'm gonna do a C-section. Glove. I need to get that baby out. Tell me what to do. Bailey: Yang. We're going to...pack away the intestines. I'll expose the uterus. Richard: Ok, call pediatrics. Bailey: Open the uterus with a midline vertical incision. Make sure you don't cut the fetus. Ok, go. Richard: Baby doesn't look good. How are we doing on the mother?Bailey: Oh, she's still bleeding pretty profusely. Hmm. I can't get it controlled. Richard: Burke?Burke: She's not coming back. Richard: Let's stop. Richard: Time of death, 19:48. (Addison enters the room)Addison: Chief?(Addison looks distraught, then she looks over to see Alex with the baby. The baby cries)(Bailey is standing there just looking at Melanie. Richard enters and stands with her.)(Marshall's room. Big Jim enters)Marshall. I am sorry. I am...I am so, so sorry. Please(Big Jim walks in looking like he is going to hurt Marshall but simply puts his hand on Marshall, they both cry. Marshall takes Jim's hand. George and Meredith share a look. Big Jim leaves.) (Izzie enters Denny's room. She pulls the door closed and all the blinds are closed. She starts taking off her shoes.)Denny: You're gonna get in trouble. Izzie: I don't care. Denny: I'm not going to cheer up for you. Izzie: You don't have to cheer up. I'm not here for me. (Izzie lays down on the bed with Denny)Izzie: I'm here for you. Ok?Denny: Ok. MVO: We're all damaged, it seems. (Cristina and Burke's apartment. She sits down at the table with him.)MVO: Some of us more than others. Burke: You must be tired. Cristina: Yeah. Burke: I'm tired too. (Noah is in the NICU with his baby.)MVO: We carry the damage with us from childhood. (Alex is looking into the NICU when Addison walks up.)MVO: Then, as grown-ups, we give as good as we get. Addison: Good work, Karev. Alex: Yeah. Kid's alive. Without a mother. (Meredith and George are sitting in the locker room)MVO: Ultimately, we all do damage. George: See you at home?Meredith: Yeah. George: Ok. See you. Meredith: Ok. MVO: And then...we set about the business of fixing...whatever we can. (Denny and Izzie are lying in bed.)Denny: Izzie?Izzie: Hmm?Denny: Would it be wrong for me to feel you up right now?Izzie: Hmm. Not so much. (They both laugh) Such a dirty boy. Denny: I know.Izzie: Hmm. (George and Callie are sitting in the basement, her apartment.)Callie: I washed my hands. I...I went down to the kitchen and I washed my hands. I didn't wash my hands in the bathroom because those girls were staring at me like I was a rodent or something. Like I was in high school and I was...having the naked dream, only it was actually happening. I didn't even know they were home. I washed my hands. You have to stand up for me. You have to say I washed my hands. George: I'm sorry. (Finn's apartment.)Finn: You're driving my crazy with the hovering. Meredith: This could be a mistake. This. Us. You're a really nice guy and...well...you...you don't want to get involved with me. If you knew me... Finn: Scary. Meredith: Finn. Finn: And damaged. See? I told you. Meredith: If you knew me? If you knew my family? If I told you the guys that I've slept with lately? The scary and damaged may actually be more than you can handle. Finn: My mother's dead. She got cancer when I was ten and she suffered for a really long time. And then she died. And my father never recovered. It's kind of like he died with her, except that his body's above ground and permanently placed in front of the TV with a bottle of Scotch in his lap. The last woman I slept with was my wife, but she died too. It was a car crash, so it was quick. She didn't suffer, which I appreciated. Don't worry. I'm thinking that my luck is beginning to change because I've met you. And you like dogs and you enjoy pony births, and you have the ability to save lives. I never said I wasn't scary and damaged too. (Meredith kisses him)2x25: 17 SecondsOriginal Airdate: 5/14/2006Written by: Mark WildingDirected by: Dan Minahan(Joe's Bar)MVO: In life, we are taught that there are seven deadly sins. (Derek and Burke are playing darts)Derek: Let's see what you got here. MVO: We all know the big ones: Gluttony, pride, lust. (Cristina, Izzie and Meredith are watching from another part of the bar.)Cristina: He's picturing my face. He's totally picturing that dart puncturing my skull. MVO: But the sin you don't hear much about is anger. (Burke flexes a muscle)Cristina: Whoa! Look at that. MVO: Maybe it's because we think anger's not that dangerous. (Derek and Meredith exchange angry glances.)Izzie: Derek...Derek is picturing you. MVO: That we can control it. Meredith: He called me a whore. He lost the right to picture me. Izzie: Hmm. Cristina: So I fall asleep during sex. So what? (Loudly) Ass. Meredith: Ass!(Alex walks by)Izzie: Oh, ass! Hey!Alex: Isobel Stevens has finally left the hospital. Does this mean heart patient dude finally kicked it?Izzie: I'm sorry. This section of the bar is for surgeons. We don't socialize with gynecologists. (George enters)Izzie: George!MVO: My point is, maybe we don't give anger enough credit. (Callie is with George)Izzie: Hey. Meredith: Hi, Callie. Cristina: Hi, Dr. Torres. MVO: Maybe it can be a lot more dangerous than we think. After all, when it comes to destructive behavior...George: Uh, gin and tonic and a beer. MVO: ...it did make the top seven. (Seattle Scenes)(Finn's vet clinic)Derek: That's it? That's your diagnosis?Meredith: Yes, he said bone cancer, so that would be his diagnosis. Derek: I heard him. I was double checking. (Addison and Finn can sense the tension in the room)Finn: I still need to do a bone scan to see how far it's spread. Osteosarcomas are aggressive, but we can try and treat it with chemo or remove the tumor entirely. If it's spread too far, we may have to amputate the limb. Derek: At that point, should we even bother?Meredith: Oh, right. Let's just let him die.Derek: I don't want him to suffer, Meredith. Meredith: Right. (Addison, Derek and Meredith are in an elevator at SGH.)Addison: So what's...I mean, is there something going on?Derek & Meredith: No.Addison: Did you guys have a fight, or something?Derek & Meredith: No. Addison: So...we're all still...friends?Derek & Meredith: Yes. (Derek and Meredith exit the elevator, Addison is left standing there confused.)(Burke and Cristina, walking through the hall)Cristina: I heard you might be getting a heart. For a transplant. Burke: Mercy West has a heart and I'm going to get it, yes. Cristina: Can I go? Because, um, I've done it before. With Dr. Bailey, when she went to get a heart. You can ask her. I was very helpful. Burke: Yeah, I'm sure you were. But I'm not going to need your help on this one. (Ambulance Bay)Paramedic: White male. GSW to the left shoulder. Paramedic: Multiple walking wounded. Five injured coming in behind us. (ER)Meredith: Why are they all in the hallway?Cristina: Overflow from the ER. Izzie: A paramedic told us an employee went postal. Shot up a restaurant.George: I heard he got away. Meredith: Really?(Another part of the ER)Cristina: Neal Hannigan and Deborah Fleiss. They were paying at the register when the gunman came in. Doctor: She's got a through and through to the right upper arm. Good distal pulses. He's sustained a possible graze wound to the right back. Bailey: Lets irrigate the wound and get them to X-ray and order a tet-tox for both. Neal: Don't worry about me, take care of my Deborah first. Deborah: Oh, now you're concerned. Neal: I said I was sorry. Deborah: Sorry? The shooting starts, you duck behind me and you're sorry?Cristina: He ducked behind...? You ducked behind her?Neal: It was instinct. I couldn't help it. Deb, honey, you know I love you. Deborah: Love means never having to use your girlfriend as a human shield!Neal: We shared a bullet, Deborah. It went through you and into me. That's a sign we should be together forever. A sign. Deborah: No, Neal, this is a sign! She's squirting water through my arm. Look! I can see you through my arm. That's another sign. Bailey: Good luck. (Another part of the ER)Meredith: Lower left leg deformity from GSW. Pedal pulse is strong and intact. Paramedics said he got five of morphine in the field. Man: Trust me, it was not enough. Callie: Probably got the tibia. Rule out other injuries then get him up to Radiology. (Another part of the ER)Derek: Lets get her up to CT. Get a hold of her parents. Get them down here as soon as possible. What's her name, by the way? George: Kendra. Kendra Thomas. Derek: Kendra. (Another part of the ER)Izzie: Almost...got it. Brad: Do you know what you're doing? Because that really hurts, you know.Izzie: You know what really hurts? Gunshot wounds. You're lucky. Brad: Lucky? There's no luck. Quick thinking, doll. Izzie: Excuse me?Brad: I'm a quick thinker. Smart. Always right on it. As soon as I saw him, Petey...he's the shooter...I knew when I fired him he was no good. As soon as I saw him, I though, "Oh, here we go." I just knew it was coming. Hey, Chaz. Larry. No offense, but you guys got to think quicker on your feet. Izzie: They have gunshot wounds. Very serious gunshot wounds. Life threatening gunshot wounds. Brad: Really helps that I'm an athlete because the second I saw Petey with that gun, I was like cat quick. Just dove right through the window. Those guys? Not so smart. Izzie: I'm going to take a wild guess and say that Petey was looking for you. (Another part of the ER)Alex: You seen any enema kits?Meredith: We have 13 GSWs. You're looking for enema kits?Alex: I'm trapped upstairs with the gyno-beast on the uterus parade. Meredith: Addison can't do this to you forever, Alex. Alex: You want to bet? Swear to God, she's ruining vaginas for me. (Another part of the ER)Richard: Two dead, 14 injured. The policeman say the gunman got away so there could be more incoming. Burke: I could stay. We could send Bailey. Richard: No. You're our only cardiothoracic transplant specialist. You go get that heart. (Cristina and Alex are watching from nearby)Cristina: Oh, forget it, Karev. I already asked. (Alex runs after Burke) It's not going to...happen. (Rooftop, Burke is entering the helicopter)Alex: Dr. Burke! Dr. Burke! I heard you were getting a heart. Can I go with you?Cristina: I asked first. Burke: You didn't get assigned any gunshot cases?Cristina: Well, yeah, but if you had put me on this when I asked I would've been free. Alex: I didn't. I'm not doing anything.Cristina: No, he's on the gynie squad!Alex: Not if you put me on this transplant. Please. Burke: Let's go, Karev. Cristina: You can't be serious. Alex: Whoo! See you later, Yang. Whoo!(Inside the helicopter)Alex: So who's the lucky patient?(Burke and Cristina stare at each other)Burke: Denny Duquette. (Alex looks sick)(The ER)Bailey: The answer is no, Stevens. Izzie: You don't even know what I'm going to ask. Bailey: You want to help prep Denny Duquette for transplant. Izzie: So it's true? He's getting a heart then?Bailey: See, your face right now? That's the problem. You're overly attached to your patient. So the answer is no, you cannot prep him. Go back to sutures. Izzie: I know Denny's cardiac parameters. I know how his LVAD works better than any other intern. I also know his meds better. I know the frequency, the dosage, the quantity and his physical limitations. I promise I will...I will be 100% professional. Bailey: No flirting, no knitting him sweaters, no marathon games of Scrabble?Izzie: I will treat him with the same protocol I would any other patient. Bailey: All right. Fine. You can inform him the hearts coming. Izzie: Thank you, Dr. Bailey. Bailey: Stevens, if you so much as sit on that bed...Izzie: I got it. (CT viewing room)Derek: Can you imagine? You're at work, you're doing your job and somebody comes in and shoots you. Just...puts a bullet in your head. 19 years old. George: I called her parents, they're on their way. Also...Derek: We need to get her into the OR immediately. I mean, the bullet's gone right through the midline. George: Also, uh...Derek: Look at the size of the hematoma. Also?George: What?Derek: You said "also" twice. George: Yeah. Also, she's pregnant. (ER)Brad: Hey, I'm management so I'm 100% covered. So, I could spend a year in this hospital, wouldn't cost me a cent. That's why, when I told you about management, Chaz, you should've listened to me. Because now you're screwed. Even if you just spend one day in this ER, that's three month's rent. Other Man: Is there any chance you can, please, up my morphine?Meredith: He keeps talking, pretty soon I'm going to need some. Will: Can you find out about Kendra for me?Meredith: Are you two friends?Will: Not friends, exactly. But, uh, everybody likes her. You know, she's...she's just...she's nice. She'll cover your shift when you need it. She's good with the customers. She's real generous when it comes to tipping busboys. Meredith: Let me guess. You're a busboy?Will: I am. Plus, she's the only one that calls Brad on his crap. Meredith: Well, why don't you say something?Will: Yeah, I wish. I'm saving up to go back to school. I need the job. (Callie walks up)Callie: What are you, socializing? I've got five more patients for you to see and Will here needs to get to surgery. Move your ass. (Callie walks away and Will gives Meredith a look)Meredith: I need the job.(Denny's room)Izzie: I have some news for you. Denny: Am I getting a better television? Because this one is ridiculously small and it doesn't get the porny channels. Izzie: You're getting a heart, Denny. Denny: I don't mean to be dramatic and all...but I'm going to need you to repeat that. And you say it slow, because this is one of those moments in life that I'm going to want to remember in detail. Izzie: You...are getting a heart...from Mercy West. Dr. Burke already left to get it. Denny: I guess this means I'm going to have to start taking you on some real dates. Izzie: I guess so. (Patricia enters)Patricia: Here we are, Mr. Duquette. Izzie: What are there?Patricia: DNR papers. Izzie: Do not resuscitate?Patricia: I'll leave these here and come back. (Patricia leaves)Izzie: Why are you signing there? You're getting a heart. Denny: If this heart doesn't come through for some reason...Izzie: It will. Denny: The last one didn't. Izzie: You're on an LVAD. Ok? That could give you another two years right there. Denny: Izzie...if I don't get this heart...I'm done. I'm...I'm sorry...I'm tired. Izzie: No. No. I'm not going to let you make this decision. Not now. Denny: Well, that's funny because I thought DNR was a patient's choice. Listen to me. I believe in heaven, Izzie. And if I had to choose between this life here...and one in heaven...I choose heaven. Ok? Izzie: Ok. (ER)Cristina: Ok, the x-rays will tell us the location of the bullet. Deborah: Mine was a through and through, right? So there's no bullet. Cristina: Yeah, well we wanna make sure it didn't hit bone. Neal: However this turns out, I want you to operate on my fianc?e first. I don't care if I'm dying. Cristina: You're not dying. Deborah: I'm also not your fianc?e anymore. Neal: We already sent out the invitations. We're getting married six weeks from now. Deborah, please. I love you. Cristina: Oh, don't fall for it. Neal: Excuse me, but...Cristina: That's how they do it, huh? With the "I love you's" and the "move in with me's" and they suck you in and they melt your resolve. And the minute you actually need something, something you totally deserve, forget it, you know, it's not going to happen. Because they pass you over for surgery or they're gonna duck behind you when someone's shooting. Deborah: You're very, very bitter. Neal: That's exactly what I was thinking. See? We're meant to be together. Deborah: Shut up, Neal. Cristina: Mm-hmm. (Mercy West)(Burke and a doctor from Mercy West are walking through the hall talking)Doctor: Two brothers tried to pass a semi on a double yellow and came out on the losing end of a head-on. Both are a match for your guy. Alex: So we get our pick. Burke: It doesn't work like that. UNOS has already assigned who gets which donor. Alex: So who's retrieving the other heart?(They walk up to a woman, Erica Hahn.)Erica: Took you long enough, Preston. Why is Junior here? Your ego get too big for one man to carry?Burke: Dr. Hahn here graduated second in our class at Johns Hopkins, Dr. Karev. Ask her who graduated first. Erica: God. (Scrub room where Derek and Addison are talking about Kendra)Addison: Kendra's fetus is 12 weeks along. It seems healthy. Did you hear me, Derek?Derek: I heard you. Addison: So you're not gonna tell me what's going on between you and Meredith?Derek: I told you. There's nothing to tell. (George enters)George: Kendra's parents are here. Derek: Let them know the situation, have them sign the consent forms, then scrub in. George: Yes, Dr. Shepherd. Derek: Thank you. (Mercy West, OR)Burke: What the hell happened to my donor?Doctor: He went into v-fib. Burke: I can see that. Give me the paddles. Karev, take over compressions! You gave epi?Doctor: Three rounds and shocked him twice. Burke: I'm going to hit him again at 360. Clear! He's asystolic. Alex: I don't get it. I mean, if the guy's already dead...Burke: And now his heart has joined the rest of him. Alex: Hmm. So, we can't use it?Burke: No, Karev, we cannot use it. The muscle is dead. The heart is useless. (Burke runs out of the room)Alex: Dr. Burke?Burke: (Running through the hall) Move, move, move, move, move! (Entering Dr. Hahn's OR) Stop right there! Don't move that scalpel! Not even a single slice! Erica: Just because your donor's heart died doesn't mean I have to give you mine. Burke: Is your patient higher on the transplant list? Is he higher on the transplant list?Erica: I have no idea. Burke: Well, neither do I. Karev, get UNOS on the phone now. Erica: Oh, give me a break!(A doctor picks up a scalpel)Burke: Hey! Hey!Erica: What? Are you going to beat him up?Burke: If I have to. Erica: Ok, just hold on. It's pathetic, Preston. Really pathetic. (Callie is standing at the OR board when Meredith walks up)Meredith: I've finished all five of your patients. Do you mind if I scrub in? I've never seen an ORIF before. Callie: Can't! The board's all backed up like crazy. Will's gonna have to wait a few hours, because every specialty thinks their surgeries are more important than Ortho. Freaking superior macho jerks. Meredith: Can I ask you a question? About bone cancer. Callie: Yeah. Meredith: In a dog. Callie: A dog?Meredith: My dog. Well, Derek's dog. Do you know Dr. Shepherd? It's our dog. We share the dog, which is...well, never mind. I just wanted to ask if you knew the success rate of curing osteosarcoma in a canine leg? Callie: We have an actual human patient with a bullet lodged in his tibia who might walk with a limp for the rest of his life, who might even conceivably lose his leg, and you're asking me about your precious dog that you share with your precious McDreamy? Yeah, I...I know about him. And you think I care? Unbelievable! (Mercy West conference room)Erica: Your guys on an LVAD? He's probably up and walking around. My guy still needs his dobutamine drip. Burke: That's the best you can do? He can climb Mount Shasta on a dobutamine drip. Man on Phone: As of this morning, Dr. Hahn's patient was 22 hundredths of a point ahead. Burke: That's basically a tie. Man on Phone: Except that Dr. Hahn's patient was admitted into the transplant program before Mr. Duquette. Burke: How long before?Man on Phone: 17 seconds. Burke: 17 seconds. Erica: Might as well be 17 weeks. It doesn't matter. (Burke's cell phone rings)(Burke hands the phone to Alex who answers it)Alex: Hello?(Izzie is sitting in the lobby)Izzie: Alex? Where's Dr. Burke?Alex: What do you want?Izzie: I wanted to know how the heart recovery is going. Alex: He's working on it. Izzie: He's working on it? So, he's operating then?Alex: There were two donors, Izzie. Our guy's heart flatlined. And now he's trying to get the other guy's. Izzie: But there's a list. Alex: Yes. And the higher guy gets the heart. Izzie: Denny's getting sicker. Alex: What?Izzie: Denny's getting worse by the second. His, uh, sats are in the eighties. Alex: Izzie. Izzie: It's seventies. His sats are now in the seventies and dropping. Alex: Izzie, I'm not going to lie for you. Izzie: Then put Burke on the phone!(Meredith is sitting in a conference room and Addison enters)Addison: Hey. Meredith: Hey. Addison: Have you seen Dr. Karev?Meredith: Uh...hours ago. Addison: Ok. (Addison and Meredith smile at each other and Meredith goes back to her work. Addison does not leave.)Addison: Sorry. I, uh...I'm not sorry. I just...I'm having a little trouble because I need to ask you something. And I don't usually have trouble. But what I need to ask...I'm not even sure I want the answer to, but I have to ask. So I'm just going to ask you and then you answer and then...uh, I'll go from there, ok? Meredith: Ok. Addison: Are you sleeping with my husband?Meredith: Not since before I knew he was married. Addison: Ok. (She starts to leave but turns back) Except, you know, it just...it felt like in the vet's office this morning, and then again in the elevator...if felt a little like you two were having a lover's quarrel? Meredith: No. We're not. I've moved on. I'm dating Finn. Addison: You're dating the vet?(A look of realization comes over Addison's face)Addison: Ok. Meredith: Addison...Addison: No, no. Thanks. I'm...I'm good. Thanks. I'm great. (Burke is on the phone with Izzie.)Burke: Flash pulmonary edema? Is it the LVAD? Is the LVAD working?Izzie: Absolutely. Burke: Well, did you put him on a nitro drip?Izzie: Um, yes. Yes, of course. (Mercy West Conference room)Erica: Preston, she could be putting paddles directly on his heart. He's still not getting this thing. Burke: How's his blood pressure?Izzie: It's, uh, still dropping. 82 over 40. Burke: Then take him off the drip and put him on dopamine. Now! Don't hang up. (To people in conference room) According to my intern, Denny Duquette now qualifies as a 1A candidate for that heart. That puts him ahead of Dr. Hahn's patient. Erica: I'm out of here. This is just crap. Man on Phone: Dr. Hahn?Erica: What?Man on Phone: If Dr. Burke wants to run labs, do an echo and a BNP to fully ascertain the status of his patient, we'll allow it. Erica: That'll take an hour. Man on Phone: Is the donor stable? Dr. Hahn? Is the donor stable?Erica: Yes, the donor is currently stable. Man on Phone: In that case. Dr. Burke, you've got an hour to get those tests. Burke (To his cell phone): Dr. Stevens?Izzie: I heard. Burke: Good. Get going then. (Kendra's OR)Doctor: BP is 220 over 130. Derek: The brain's fungating out of the wound. George: What's fungating?Derek: Herniating. Nurse: She's bradycardic. Derek: Um, give me 50 mannitol and 20 of furosemide. What's her pulse?Nurse: Down to 32. Derek: Come on, Kendra. Come one. CO2?Nurse: 40. Derek: Oh, God. Clot's already evacuated. All right, everybody. George: But...Derek: She's brain dead. There's nothing we can do now. (Derek and George are in the waiting room talking with Kendra's parents)Derek: There is no spontaneous brain activity and she isn't going to wake up.Mrs. Thomas: Oh, God. Mr. Thomas: What about the baby? Is the baby ok?Derek: As far as we can tell, the baby's fine but...that's not the point. Essentially your daughter is dead. We need your consent to remover her from life support. Mr. Thomas: What if we kept Kendra alive? Could the baby live?George: With all due respect, sir, you don't want to do that. Mr. Thomas: Are you part of this family? Do you have a daughter? If you don't, you really ought to just shut up!Mrs. Thomas: Our daughter could have this baby?(Nurse is stitching up Brad)Brad: You know, even with all these cuts, I don't feel any pain. I swear, I have the highest pain threshold of anybody I know. (Bailey walks up to Will who is watching Brad from afar)Will: God! If I could say something to that guy and not get fired...Bailey: He can't fire me. (Bailey walks over to Brad's bed)Bailey: Uh, Mr. Eckles? Brad? Uh, I'm happy for you that you're not feeling much pain from your very minor injuries. But there are a great many people in this hospital who are in a great amount of pain. See, they have bullets in their bones, in their chests, and in their brains. Bullets from a gun that was aiming for you. And although they can't say it because you are the boss of them, most of these people at this moment are praying...not that they'll live, not that the pain will subside, they're praying to God for you at this moment to shut the heck up! (Bailey walks away leaving Brad stunned. As she walks by Will he mouths thank you.)Bailey: No problem. (Cristina and Meredith are sitting on gurneys in a hallway, talking.)Cristina: Karev. He stood there and chose that moron over me. Meredith: I mean, I'm trying to help the dog and he's standing there talking about putting the dog down. Like Doc means nothing. Cristina: He's not rewarding Karev, he's punishing me. Meredith: And he hates Finn. Who, by the way, is great with dogs. Cristina: You know, he withholds surgery when I'm a bad girlfriend. It's his M.O. I mean, how controlling and macho and petulant is that? Meredith: At least he's not shooting people or putting down dogs. (Izzie walks up)Cristina: I'm dumping him. This relationship is so over. Izzie: Um, I...I told a lie...to Dr. Burke. Cristina: Good for you. Fight the power. Izzie: No, no. I need...um...God, I can't think. I...I can't...I don't know what to do. What do I do? There's this guy ahead of Denny of the transplant list. Meredith: He'll get the next heart, Iz. Izzie: No! He needs to get this heart!Cristina: He'll probably get a heart at some point, but as long as Denny's doing well on the LVAD and there's someone ahead of him on the transplant list, he's not going to get this heart. Ok? Izzie: (Looks like she had a revelation) Yes. You're right. Ok. Thank you. Thank you. (Izzie starts grabbing supplies)Cristina: (Whispering) Ok, if I was going to pick someone who was gonna go psycho and shoot up the place...it's Izzie. Meredith: Totally. (Izzie enters Denny's room with a crash cart and other supplies.)Denny: What's all that?Izzie: Heart stuff. Denny: What? So you're gonna put this heart in me in my room? I didn't know transplants were so informal. Izzie: There may not be a heart, Denny. Somebody at Mercy West might get it instead. Denny: So this isn't going to happen...again?Izzie: Not necessarily. I have been over this and over this and it can't be a lie and it can't be fake. We need charts, we need test results. We need UNOS to believe us. So it has to be real. Denny: What are you talking about, Izzie?Izzie: In order for you to get the heart, you would have to get worse. Much worse. And you would have to do it very quickly. Denny: Well, I don't see that happening. You see that happening?Izzie: I am going to make it happen. (Seattle Scenes)(Mercy West, Alex enters the OR where Burke is)Burke: It's been 30 minutes already. Is Stevens answering her page?Alex: She probably busy getting test results. Burke: Did you call Bailey?Alex: Well, she's not answering either. Erica: You can check the chart all you want. You're not getting this heart. Burke: Well, you may not want it. His angiogram shows 30% LAD. Erica: It's still not enough to give it to you. (Denny's room. Izzie is closing the blinds.)Denny: Izzie. Izzie, stop and listen to me. We're not doing this. Izzie: Don't worry. You're not going to die. I will be here the whole time to make sure of that and that's what this stuff is for. Denny: This isn't about me dying. All right? This is wrong. Izzie: You've waited a year and a half to get this thing. Who knows when the next one is gonna come along?Denny: I'll take my chances. Izzie: No! it may be too late by then. Denny: Then it's too late! All right? Now, get this stuff out of here!Izzie: Denny, please. You have to do this. Denny: No, Izzie. I'm not about to steal a heart from another man's chest. Not to mention, this will be the end of your medical career. Izzie: I don't care about my medical career. Denny: All right, you know what? This has gone on long enough. I'm gonna call a nurse. Izzie: Everyone who is entered into the transplant program is clocked in to the second. To the second. Denny, you were clocked in to the second and so was the other guy. I checked with UNOS. The difference between when you entered the program and when he entered the program is 17 seconds. That's it, Denny. Seventeen seconds. I mean, it's not even the length of a decent kiss. So this other guy? I'm not saying that he doesn't deserve this heart. I'm sure he does. But so do you. So do you! And if you tell me any more crap about heading towards the light or looking down on me from heaven, I swear I will kill you myself, right now. Denny: Izzie. I'm gonna be all right. All right? You don't have to worry. Izzie: What about me? What about me when you go to the light?Denny: Izzie...Izzie: (Hysterically) No! I get it, ok? I get it. You'll be ok. You'll be fine, but what about me? So don't do it for yourself. Do it for me! Please! Please, Denny! Please do this for me! Because if you die...Oh, God you have to do this. You have to do this for me or I'll never be able to forgive you! Denny: For dying?Izzie: No! For making me love you! Please! Please do this for me. Denny: Come here. Izzie: Ok? Please! Ok? I can't do this if you don't. Please do this for me! Because if you don't do this...Please! Denny: Ok. Ok, I'll do it. (Denny holds her in his arms)(Callie and George are walking through the hall)Callie: I'm in the middle of analyzing an X-ray and your friend Meredith starts asking me about her dog. Her dog. George, she wants a medical opinion about her dog. George: She likes her dog. Callie: Why are you defending Meredith?George: What?Callie: I get Izzie. I mean, I don't. But if you want to defend Izzie, that's fine. I don't get how you can defend Meredith. George: Hey! We're interns. We all started out together, Meredith, Izzie, Cristina and me. We started out together. Callie: George, that woman hurt you as badly as anyone can be hurt. You were devastated when I met you. George: Hey. They're family. Izzie and Meredith and Cristina they're...they're my family. I can hate Meredith and I can be angry at her but I'll always defend her. Callie: So you don't have to forgive Meredith but I do?George: If you want a chance to be part of the family, yeah. (Izzie is on the phone with Dr. Burke.)Izzie: Dr. Burke. Hello. Burke: Stevens. Where the hell have you been? Have you got the lab results?Izzie: Um...I'm working on that. Burke: Stevens, I need answers. Stevens?Izzie: You should get back here. With the heart. As soon as you can. Burke: What the hell are you...what are you talking about?Izzie: Preston. Burke: Izzie, what did you do?Izzie: Soon as I get confirmatory tests and labs to raise Denny's UNOS status, I will fax them over to you. Then you should waste no time getting back here. Because I don't know enough to know how long Denny will have once I start. Burke: Start? What did you do, Izzie? What did you do?Izzie: I'm going to hang up now. Just hurry. (Burke enters Dr. Hahn's OR)Burke: According to my intern, Denny Duquette is in pulmonary edema. He has been intubated and placed on multiple IV drips. Doctor: So, Preston gets the heart. Great, lets open this guy. Burke: However, given this unusual situation and out of respect to Dr. Hahn, I'd like to confirm those results. Alex: You just did. Burke: In person. I want to confirm them in person. Erica: Are you kidding? By the time you get there, it'll be another hour. What are you up to, Burke? Why don't you just talk to your chief? Confirm the results with him. Alex: Well, because of the shootings today...at the restaurant. All our attendings are still in surgery. Burke: Exactly. Now, if you'd prefer, or I can just call UNOS and have them give me the heart. Or I can go and make sure that it really belongs to me. Erica: Go. Burke: Thank you. (Burke and Alex start to leave)Burke: I'm going back to Seattle Grace. You stay here and protect my heart. If that woman so much as looks at a scalpel, tackle her. Do you understand? Alex: Yes, sir. (Derek and Addison are in a hallway)Derek: Hey, you got a minute?Addison: You ready to talk?Derek: Uh, my patient, Kendra Thomas. She's brain dead. Her parents want to keep her alive to have the baby. Addison: So, you want me to talk to the parents?Derek: Well, I tried already, but I figured, you know, you're neonatal, you might have a better shot at it than I do. Addison: Ok. Derek: It's just that you could give the a much more detailed picture...Addison: I said I'd do it. (Kendra's room)Addison: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas, Dr. Shepherd asked me to talk to you about your daughter and her pregnancy. Mr. Thomas: We've made up our mind. She's having the baby. Addison: I know Kendra meant the world to you and I know the terrible grief you must be going through right now, but from a medical standpoint, this is a very bad idea. Mr. Thomas: Well, if we'd wanted your opinion, miss, we'd ask for it. Mrs. Thomas: It's just...we love our daughter. Please try to understand. Addison: I do understand. I do. You think if you love her enough or love her baby enough that it will keep her close to you. But she's already gone and if you go forward with this, you're risking...I mean, if Kendra, were to contract an infection, she could pass it on to the fetus and it could cause brain damage... Mr. Thomas: We're taking our chances. Mrs. Thomas: Now...they keep organ donors alive after they're...gone. Why not Kendra?Addison: Organ donors aren't kept alive for six months. Your daughter is brain dead. She can't regulate body temperature, hormone output. These things are very important for a fetus. Mr. Thomas: You guys can regulate that stuff, right?Addison: We could try. I...Mr. Thomas: Well then try, damn it! What the hell's the problem here?Addison: The problem, as I see it, is you want to use your daughter's corpse as an incubator. That's the problem. Derek: Ok, I'm sorry. Would you excuse us?Addison: That's the problem. What? What? Derek what are you doing? Derek?Derek: They just lost their daughter. Addison: I know. That was my point, Derek. They need to face that. She's not coming back. Derek: A little sensitivity would be nice here, ok? They love their daughter. They don't want to let go. Addison: What they're doing is not about love, Derek. It's...it's...well, it's like you. Derek: Excuse me?Addison: Like how you pretend to love me, but really you're just using me to fill some need you have to be a good guy. Derek: Now is not the time to talk about this. We'll talk about this later. Addison: You walk away? That's all I get?Derek: Just calm down, please. Addison: What? What? You're not going to yell at me? Call me names? Or I don't know...ignore me in an elevator. Derek: What do you want from me, Addison?Addison: I want you to care! I sleep with your best friend and you walk away. He comes out here from New York and rubs it in your face, and still you get a good night's sleep. What do I have to do? Oh! I know. Maybe what I should do is go out on a date with the vet. Because that seems to something that sends you into a blind rage. Oh, but wait. That won't work either because I'm not Meredith Grey! (Derek nods his head towards the floor below. Addison looks and sees Meredith, Cristina, Chief Webber among others. They have witnessed the whole scene. Derek walks away.) (Kendra's room)George: I know this is a bad time, but have you decided, do you still want to go ahead with the baby?Mr. Thomas: We haven't decided on anything. George: Sir? You asked me before if I had a daughter. I don't. but I have a family. I...actually have a couple families. The thing about families, you don't necessarily like what they do. Their choices and their decisions. But you stick by them. Right now one of my friend, her boyfriend is dying. Heart failure. He's 36. I checked Kendra's driver's license, she's a donor. She's not a match for him, but she could save a dozen other lives. And from what I know about Kendra, what I've heard, I gotta believe that if she had the choice between where she is right now and saving a dozen other people, she'd save those people. That would be her decision. So the question is...whether you stick by her one last time. Excuse me. (Meredith enters an X-ray viewing room where Callie is.)Meredith: You paged?Callie: Yeah. There are, um, these are X-rays of a human with an osteosarcoma on his tibia. It's the closest I could get to mirroring what's actually happening to your dog. In this patient, the cancer was aggressive. And it spread quickly and he died when it finally metastasized on his lungs. Meredith: The human died?Callie: Yes. The human died. Meredith: Thank you, Callie. Callie: You're welcome, Meredith. (Deborah and Neal are kissing and getting ready to go home.)Deborah: You ok, baby?Neal: Yeah. (Cristina enters)Cristina: Well, you made up with him? Hmm. Deborah: I told him I'd give him one more chance. Neal: And I told her, she won't have to. What I went through today, what we went through today, it's changed me. This bullet will always remind me to do the right thing by my Deborah. Cristina: Here you go. Deborah: And whatever's going on with you and your boyfriend? Maybe you should just try and forgive him. It really feels so much better than all that anger. Cristina: Thanks. (Will's bed)Bailey: We haven't forgotten you, Will. We'll get you to the OR as soon as possible. (Brad is watching from nearby)Will: My friend, Kendra...Dr. Grey said that if anybody had any information they'd give me, they would let me know as soon as possible. Bailey: Ok, I'm sorry. (Brad walks up)Brad: I'm gonna get you some time off, man. I'm gonna talk to the owner, make sure they keep your job for you, you know. It's not your fault you got shot. Not my fault either. You know, I...I didn't...I didn't pull the trigger. Petey had the gun. I'm just saying. People blame management, but we do the best we can. I mean, I...I do the best I can. (Hallway)Addison: I know what you're going to say, Richard, but if you knew that day that I had...Richard: Everybody in this hospital has those days, Addison. And no one makes a scene in front of their peers. Get it together. Addison. Addison: I can't compete. He's not having an affair. He's not trying to hurt me. He's just...the only people who don't know Derek loves Meredith are Derek and Meredith. How do I compete with that? MVO: So what makes anger different from the six other deadly sins?(Derek and Meredith are in the elevator. He looks at Meredith then turns away. She looks at Derek then turns away. He starts to say something but changes his mind. They get off the elevator.) MVO: It's pretty simple really. You give in to a sin like envy or pride then you only hurt yourself. (George and Callie are in the locker room)Callie: I love you. (George just looks at her) I'm sorry. I'm...I...I didn't mean to...I just...I...I have verbal diarrhea and I'm a moron. What are you thinking? Are you freaking out or...? (Izzie enters)Izzie: George, I need your help. I wouldn't ask if it weren't important. It's...George: Ok. (To Callie) I'll call you? Later?Callie: Sure. (Meredith enters Finn's)Finn: Were we supposed to have dinner tonight?Meredith: Tell me the truth about Doc. Finn: What about him?Meredith: You've been downplaying how sick he is, haven't you?Finn: The best-case scenario, I would say Doc has maybe a year left. Meredith: Ok. Finn: And Doc is not the best-case scenario. Meredith: Ok. Finn: Meredith?Meredith: Oh, damn it. Finn: I am sorry. I'm so sorry. I know how much you love him. Meredith: I do. I love him so much. (George enters Denny's room)George: You need my help for an EKG?Izzie: No. Come. (To Denny) Ok, after I do this, I might have to shock you a few times. George: Do what?Izzie: You feeling good?Denny: I think so. Explain this to me again. Izzie: Ok, the LVAD has been inserted into your abdomen and is connected to your heart. This cord leads to the power source, this one is connected to the pump that pumps your heart for you. I have the crash cart, the defibrillator, the Ambu bag, saline... George: Do what, Izzie?Izzie: Um, I feel like we should say stuff. Denny, do you want to say stuff?Denny: Kiss me. Right here. (they kiss) Izzie, that kiss was worth 1,000 words. Izzie: A picture. A picture is worth a 1,000 words. Denny: You're gonna correct me at a time like this?George: I don't mean to be intrusive...Izzie: Just give me a second, George. Izzie: Ok, are you ready?Denny: As I'll ever be. (Izzie picks up the scissors)George: Wait. What are you doing?(Deborah and Neal are being released. Bailey is scrubbing her hands at a sink. Brad is leaving as well.)MVO: Try lust or coveting and you'll only hurt yourself, and probably one or two others. But anger...anger is the worst. (Gunshots are heard. Neal ducks behind Deborah)Deborah: Ok. We're done. Bailey: What was that? Were those gunshots?(Bailey runs to where the sound came from)MVO: The mother of all sins. (Will's bed)Will: Petey. (Denny's room)Izzie: Denny. If there really is some kind of big glowy light...Denny: I'll try like hell to stay out of it. Izzie: Exactly. George: I don't like that sound of this. Izzie: Just make sure nobody comes through that door. George: What are you doing?Izzie: I'm stopping his heart, George. MVO: Not only can anger drive you over the edge, when it does, you can take an awful lot of other people with you. (Bailey runs outside. Bailey checks Brad's pulse. He is dead.)(Denny's room)George: Izzie. (Bailey runs up to another gunshot victim. It is Dr. Burke)Bailey: Oh! Dr. Burke. I need some help!(Denny's room, Izzie and Denny are looking at each other)(Outside Bailey is trying to help Dr. Burke who is lying on the ground not moving)(Denny's room)Izzie: It's ok. Burke will be here any minute. (Izzie cuts the LVAD wire and there is the sound flatlining.) 2x26: Deterioration of the Fight or Flight ResponseOriginal Airdate: 5/15/2006Written by: Joan Rater & Tony PhelanDirected by: Rob Corn(Bailey is in front of the hospital helping Burke who has been shot)MVO: Human beings need a lot of things to feel alive. (Denny's heart monitor is flatlined)George Voice Over: Family. (Denny is lying in bed motionless.)Cristina Voice Over: Love. Izzie Voice Over: Sex. Derek Voice Over: But we only need one thing...Burke Voice Over: To actually be alive. (Derek is standing on the balcony overlooking the hospital floor)Cristina Voice Over: We need a beating heart. (Bailey is performing CPR on Burke.)Addison Voice Over: When our heart is threatened...Alex Voice Over: We respond in one of two ways. George: We either run...Burke Voice Over: Or...(Camera switches to Burke's point of view, he is seeing blurry and sees Bailey above him. Burke opens his eyes.)Izzie Voice Over: We attack. Richard Voice Over: There's a scientific term for this. Alex Voice Over: Fight...Addison Voice Over: Or flight. Bailey Voice Over: It's instinct. MVO: We can't control it. (Denny is flatlined and Izzie is standing next to him still holding the scissors.)Izzie Voice Over: Or can we?George: Izzie. His heart's barely beating. We need to call a code. I can't feel a pulse. Izzie, we need to call a code!Izzie: No! I have a plan. George: He's crashing! I need to call the...Izzie: No! If we call a code, they will rush him to surgery and replace his LVAD and then he will stabilize. He needs to get worse if he's gonna get this heart. George: Izzie, this is crazy. Izzie: He has to get this heart. He will die waiting for another chance. You know he will. George: We have to call a code!Izzie: No! You press that code button, I will hurt you. Not a lot, cause we're friends, but enough so that things will break and you will lie on the floor out of my way. George: Izzie...Izzie: You have a decision to make. You can stay here and help me with this or you can go. What's it gonna be, George?(Cristina enters the ER and walks up to Richard.)Cristina: Chief! How bad is it? It looks bad. Um, I'm here. I can help. If there's anything surgical, I can help. Richard: Why don't you go run Trauma 2, Dr. Yang?Cristina: I get to run Trauma 2 all by myself?Richard: Yes, but find me if you need help. And get consults. Cristina: I'm on it. (Cristina runs off to Trauma 2. Richard walks to the entrance where Bailey is wheeling Burke inside.)Richard: How bad is it?Bailey: Uh, GSW to the right shoulder. He's lost a lot of blood. Richard: All right. Get him to Trauma 1 and keep the blinds closed. Yang's on the floor. (Trauma 2)Doctor: Self inflicted GSW to the head. Pulse is thready. Cristina: This guy's the shooter?Doctor: Yep. Emptied his clip, then shot himself. Cristina: And blew off half his head. Ok, ok. Um, push one of epi and get him on the monitor. Doctor: You're running this?Cristina: Damn right, I am. (Burke's ER. Burke is struggling to get off the gurney)Bailey: Hey. Wait. Burke: I'm fine. Richard: You need to lay down. You've lost a lot of blood. Burke: I'm fine. Let go. I'm fine. I have a patient that I have to go check on. Bailey: No, no. No, you are the patient. Lay down!Burke: (Laughing) Dr. Bailey, when did you get here?Richard: Page Shepherd. (Cristina's ER, she is doing CPR on Petey, Derek walks past the window and enters the ER where Burke is. As the door opens, Cristina sees Burke inside.) Cristina: Take over compressions. (Cristina goes into Burke's ER)Cristina: You're shot?Burke: Cristina?Richard: Get back to your station, Yang. Cristina: He's shot?Bailey: Yang, we got it. It's ok. Cristina: That guy shot you. (Cristina goes back into her ER)Cristina: Move.Doctor: He's a lost cause. Cristina: Move. Doctor: He's circling the drain. Cristina: (To Petey) You don't get to kill yourself. You do not get off that easily. Push high dose epi. Doctor: Dr. Yang...Cristina: What? I want to be able to tell his family that I did everything I could to save his pathetic, miserable life. Give him three of epi. Now! (Seattle Scenes)(Mercy West)Alex: We should be hearing from Dr. Burke any minute. Erica: That's what you said half an hour ago. Well, whether or not we hear from him, we hit that hour mark, I'm going in to get my heart. (Burke's ER)Bailey: Ok, no, no exit wound. Derek: Entry upper right shoulder. Could be lodged in the spine. Ok, lets roll him over. Richard: Easy.Derek: Watch the arm. Richard: Easy. Derek: Hey. Dr. Burke?Burke: Hmm?Derek: The bullet is in dangerous property here, ok? We need to check your hand function. Richard: I want you to try and squeeze my fingers, ok?(Cristina enters)Cristina: They moved my guy upstairs. How is he?Bailey: I need you to wait outside. Cristina: I'm not gonna wait outside. Burke?Burke: Can we have a moment?Richard: Only a moment. I don't want to waste any time, ok?Burke: Cristina. Cristina: Honey, you don't have to say anything. I know you're sorry. I know you didn't mean to kick me off the transplant and I'm not mad. I mean, I was, but I'm not anymore. So, don't even think about it. Ok? I mean, all that matters it that you get better and you get through this. And I'm here for you. Whatever you need. Anything. Burke: I need...you...to...to go...to check on Denny Duquette. Cristina: Ok. Burke: Mm-hmm. Cristina: Ok, that was my best "supportive girlfriend" and you kind of ruined it with medicine. Ok?(Adele pulls up a curtain in the ER to reveal Addison walking up)Adele: Addison! Thank you for meeting us. Addison: You wanna tell me what's so important I'm keeping it secret from my Chief of Surgery?(A young lady, Camille is on a hospital bed in full prom attire)Adele: I was chaperoning a prom for my niece. We had a little bit of a situation. Addison: Camille Travis, 17, lost consciousness during sexual intercourse?Adele: Oh, keep it down. Camille: It's ok, Aunt Adele, I'm fine. Adele: When your Uncle Richard finds out you were cashing in your V-card, none of us will be fine. (Two girls and a boy enter in their prom attire)Claire-Camille?Natalie: Mrs. Webber!Claire: My God! Is she ok?Natalie-She has to ok, right?Claire-No one ever died from having sex, right?Brian-You're not going to tell my parents, right? I mean, I even used a condom and everything. (Denny's room. George is looking at a computer while Izzie is manually pumping Denny's heart. Meredith enters)Meredith: George's page said it was an emergency. Izzie: You paged Meredith?George: We need help!Meredith: What the hell is going on?(Cristina enters)Cristina: What the hell is going on?Meredith: Exactly what I said. George: She cut his LVAD wires!Meredith: What do you mean you cut his LVAD wires? Cristina: Are you trying to kill him?Izzie: I'm trying to save him. All I have to do is confirm that his condition is worse, then Burke can call UNOS and he'll move up on the list and he will get his heart. Cristina: About Burke...George: She's gone insane, right? It's not just me?Cristina: About Burke...Izzie: Everything will be fine!Meredith: Izzie!Izzie: When Burke gets here, everything will be fine. He will know what to do. Cristina: About Burke...George: (Loudly) What?Cristina: He's been shot!(George is now pumping Denny's heart)Izzie: Burke's not coming?Meredith: Cristina, are you ok?Cristina: I'm fine. Izzie: Burke's not coming?George: Why didn't I take the internship in San Diego? None of this would be happening if I was in San Diego. Izzie: Burke's not coming. Cristina: No, Izzie. Burke is not coming. I know your having problems here what with your possible murder charges and your unbelievably stupid idea about stealing a heart, but Burke's kind of busy right now! Izzie: Denny's gonna die. Denny's gonna die and I killed him. George: (Yelling) You shouldn't have done it! Meredith: George!George: We have to tell someone. Meredith: No! Denny won't get the heart and Izzie'll get kicked out of the program. Cristina: I'm leaving. George: What?Meredith: Cristina!Cristina: Burke could die, too. Complications arise all the time because of gunshot wounds! You think about that. Izzie: Oh, my God. Cristina: Oh, God. You know what, none of this would have happened, if you were thinking with your head...Izzie: I did what I thought was best!George: Did you think about the rules? Did you think for one second...Meredith: Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! No one is leaving. And no one is dying. Denny: Thank you. It was kind of getting on my nerves all this dying talk. Izzie: Denny. Denny: It's ok. I think, uh, maybe we should all listen to Meredith. It looks like she might have a plan.Izzie: You have a plan?Meredith: Just give me a minute. (Outside Camille's room)Adele: You girls should go back to the prom. Claire: Are you gonna call Camille's parents?Adele: Not until I have to. You knew her mom. She gets a little hysterical. (Richard walks up to a nearby nurse's station)Adele: Brian, disappear. Brian: What?Adele: Disappear! Go! Disappear! Richard. Richard. Richard: Adele. Adele: Hmm. Richard: Um, what? Are you here to see Preston?Adele: Preston? No. What happened to Preston?Richard: Preston was shot. Adele: Preston was shot?Richard: Yeah. (Richard peeks through the window over Adele's shoulder and sees Camille inside. She is now wearing a hospital gown.)Richard: Camille. What happened to Camille?Adele: Richard...Richard: Why didn't you call me?Adele: She's 17, sweetheart. She'll be 18 in a few months. Most girls lose it way before...Richard: Uh-huh! Do you think I want to hear that? Do you think I wanna picture my baby niece..."losing it"?Adele: Richard, Richard, take deep breaths. (Addison walks out of Camille's room and up to them)Addison: Well, the bleeding has stopped, but her pelvic exam does concern me. I'd like to do an ultrasound. Richard: Three years ago, Camille was diagnosed with ovarian cancer. They only removed one ovary to try and preserve fertility, but her checkups have been clean since then. Addison: Ok. Well, let's not worry until we have to. (Brian walks by)Richard: You! You wait right there! I want to talk to you! (Adele motions for him to run and Brian starts to run away) I said wait. Stop! I said stop! Adele: Richard, take deep breaths! Richard!(Denny's room)George: Oh, that's a stupid plan!Meredith: Well, if Burke isn't coming, then we have to confirm Denny's condition ourselves. We get the blood work. We do the echo. And no one even has to know what Izzie did. Izzie: But none of us have done an echo on our own before.Meredith: Cristina has. Burke taught her. Cristina: I'm not involved. Izzie: What if this were Burke? What if you were me?Cristina: This is bad. This is bad and serious and against a lot of rules. It's not fun for me. I don't wanna play. Izzie: What if you were me?Cristina: Well, I wouldn't have fallen in love with a patient. Izzie: You fell in love with an attending. Cristina: Well, so did Mer. What's the point?Meredith: The point is, we can't help who we fall in love with.George: Yeah. Izzie: Yeah. (Burke's room)Derek: His hands are cold. Burke: My hands are always cold. Richard: You hand is cold, Preston. Burke: I have cold hands. (Derek and Richard look at the X-rays)Richard: The bullet could be lodged in the brachial plexus. That's dangerous. Derek: Yes, very dangerous. Burke: My hands are always cold. Richard: We'll have to do an angiogram. Derek: Yeah. Burke: I'm always cold. (Burke's monitor starts beeping)Derek: Trachea's deviated to the right!Richard: Absent breath sound on the right side! Lets go! Lets go! Lets go!Derek: 14 gage angioRichard: Gotta hurry!Derek: Dr. Burke? Dr. Burke? You gotta stay with me now. There you go. That's it. There you go! You're all right. Right here. Right here. Your lung collapsed. You're ok. You're ok now. (Mercy West, Alex in on the phone with Meredith)Alex: He's been shot? Dude. Meredith: We're gonna have to run these tests ourselves. Alex: UNOS gave us an hour. In a couple of minutes, our time is up. I'm telling you, this chick is hardcore. She's not gonna wait. Meredith: Ok, well, you just have to stall her. Alex: I'm not getting involved with this. Look I don't care if that drawling bedridden whiner ever gets a heart. Meredith: Alex. Do this. For Izzie. Alex: I'm not guaranteeing anything. (Camille's room)Natalie: So...was it totally romantic?Claire: Yeah, before...the pain and the paramedics and everything?Camille: Ok, so...you know that feeling when you look into someone's eyes and you're totally comfortable and you aren't self-conscious and everything just...is, like, perfect? Addison: Camille, have you had any symptoms, um...any abdominal pain? Nausea? Anything?Claire: No, she's been fine. Addison: You haven't been fine, have you?Camille: No, not for, like, a month or so. Natalie: You've been feeling sick for a month?Camille: I wanted to go to prom. I, I...I didn't want to be the girl with cancer, again. Claire: You're not. She's not, right?(Addison walks up to Adele)Addison: Hey. Adele: Oh. I was just trying to remember the night I lost my virginity. And I can't. I remember who it was with and I remember I was 18, but...I can't remember any of the details. Addison: I can remember all of the details. Kind of wish I couldn't. Adele: That bad?Addison: No, just not good. Good came later. And then really good came. Adele: That little girl in there's just getting started. She hasn't even seen what good is yet. Please. Addison. Tell me she's going to have a chance to see what the good stuff is. (Addison doesn't say anything but from the look on her face you can tell the answer is no)Adele: Oh. Addison: I'm so sorry, Adele.(Denny's room)Izzie: How's his heart looking?Cristina: His left ventricle's shot and he's barely pushing blood out. Izzie: I'm sorry. I know that you're worried about Burke. Cristina: You know, whatever. It's fine. Izzie: Cristina, can't you just try to understand? I love him. Cristina: You don't even know him. Izzie: I do know him. Cristina: No. You've never even seem him outside the four walls of this hospital. You don't know him. Izzie: I know him. Maybe I don't live with him or work with him like you do with Burke, but I do know him. And there's....there's possibility here. And given the choice of running or staying... Cristina: You should run. A sane person, a person who values her career and everything she's worked for, a person who values her own heart, for God's sake...that person would run. Denny: A sane person...would marry me. Izzie: What? What did you say? What did he say? He said marry me? He said marry me, right?George: He did. Izzie: Denny. Wake up. Denny. (Monitor starts beeping loudly)George: What's happening?Izzie: I'm pumping harder. I don't know. Meredith: He's flatline. Cristina: No, no, no. He's not flatline. There's movement in his heart. Ok, um, uh, lets shock him. Uh, charge the defibrillator. Izzie: Ventilate George!George: I am. Izzie: Charging to 200!Cristina: You got it?Izzie: Yeah. Clear. (Mercy West)Erica: Is Dr. Burke alive?Alex: Yes. Erica: Shame. He'd probably have made a good donor. (To her team) Ok, people, let's get our organs and get out of here. Alex: Hey! That heart is not yours yet. Seattle Grace is still waiting for test results. Erica: Well, I'm not. Ten blade. Alex: You can't do that. Erica: I just did. (Richard walks down a set of stairs into the waiting room, which is full of teenagers dressed in their prom attire.)Richard: Girls. Claire: Um, I called Jillian. Natalie: And I called Tessa. Claire: And then they called Simon and Bianca and Deborah. Richard: Girls...Natalie: It's her prom, Dr. Webber. She can't miss her whole prom! So...we, like, brought it to her. Richard: (Loudly) Kids! Kids! Listen up. Look, I know you wanted to see Camille. Why don't you come back tomorrow? During the day. In smaller groups. (Quietly) Look, I'm sorry, girls. I can't have a bunch of teenagers running in the hallways. People are sick. People are d... Claire: Dying? Yeah, we know. (Burke's room)Derek: How're you doing?Burke: I'm developing numbness in my...fourth and fifth fingers. Derek: And there's a pseudo-aneurysm in the subclavian artery. You know the drill. Wait a few days, maybe the aneurysm won't grow. Burke: Yeah, if...if it stays this size, there's too much damage. Derek: We'll just go in there and we'll fix it. Relieve the compression on the nerves. Burke: But the operation could cause damage to the nerves. Derek: Yes. Burke: And I could...lose function of the entire arm. Derek: Yes. Burke: You can do this? You're good enough to do this?Derek: I think so. Burke: But you're not sure. Derek: But I'm not sure. Burke: So...what do I do?Derek: It's not like you to ask those kind of questions. Burke: It's not like you not to have the answers. (Adele walks up to Richard who is standing at the nurse's station)Adele: How dare you send those kids away?Richard: Adele. Please. You're emotional. Ok?Adele: I just told my sister her baby's cancer is back. You're damn right, I'm emotional. If you don't want to bend your precious rules for Camille, fine. Don't do it for her. Do it for me. Do it for your wife who never asks you for anything. Who says nothing about your long hours. Who looks the other way while you have an affair with another woman. Who sobered you up when that woman left you. Who stayed with you when everyone, everyone said I would be better off alone. I'm not asking you, I'm telling you, you're going to make this up to Camille. You're gonna prioritize the needs of your family above those of your other patients. Or...you're going to find a new place to sleep. (Derek is walking through the hall, Addison walks up behind him.)Addison: Derek. Derek: Not now, Addison. Addison: Derek. Derek: Not now. (Derek enters a dark conference room)Richard: There's never a good place to hide in this hospital. Derek: I'm trying to get perspective. Everything feels enormous. Like it's all just...I ...I can't get perspective. Richard: My niece's cancer has come back. She's 17 years old and she's going to die. Plus...25 years ago, I had a secret affair with...Ellis Grey. And today, I find out that my wife knew the entire time. There was no...secret. And she stayed with me. Derek: Hmm. I respect him, you know? Dr. Burke...I...I respect him. He's decent. He's honorable. An arrogant ass who just hogs the OR but thinks he's God, but...he's decent and he's honorable. I respect him. He's one of the foremost cardiothoracic surgeons in the country and I've gotta just...it's his hand. I cannot get perspective. I can't do this. I can't be responsible for it. Richard: Preston's an honorable and decent man, but, Derek, so are you. You are honorable and decent. And you're too honorable and decent to run. (Looks at his coffee cup) You don't know how much I wish this was bourbon. (Burke's room, Bailey enters)Bailey: Anything I can get for you, Dr. Burke?Burke: No. I'm fine. Bailey: Um, there...there must be something. Burke: It would be nice...to have some ice chips. And a touch of morphine if I'm allowed. And, uh...Cristina. Bailey: Coming right up. Where is Cristina? Where are...where are all of the suck-ups?Burke: Excuse me?Bailey: My interns. My ass kissing, surgery-hungry, competitive suck-ups. Where are they? Why aren't they here fetching you ice chips and morphine? Why aren't they here sucking up? You know something. Burke: I'm a patient.Bailey: Preston Xavier Burke...what have you done with my suck-ups?(Denny's room)Izzie: What do we do? What do we do?Meredith: I'm starting dopamine and dobutamine drips. We can use those together, right? What about milrinone? Izzie: I don't know. Cristina: You know, none of us do. Just start the dobutamine and dopamine. George: What about...what about...gluceratide? That might help. Denny: I feel like my chest is running away. Meredith: His heart rate's 217. Izzie: He's in SVT. Cristina: No, no. Izzie, stop pumping. Stop. George: No, there's no change. Meredith: We need that medicine?Izzie: What medicine?Meredith: I'll know it when I see it. George: I think...the one that stops the heart. Here hold the mask. Denny: No. The whole point is to keep my heart beating. Izzie: No, no, no. It only stops it for six seconds. George: Meredith, it's adenosine. Cristina: Uh, his heart is speeding up! Guys!Izzie: You guys! We have to do something! He cannot take this for much longer. George: What about shocking him?Meredith: Found it!George: Cristina, come over here. Lift up his arm. The nurses always lift the arm when they push adenosine. It gets to the heart faster. Izzie: Ok, Denny. You're gonna feel, um...Denny: Izzie!Izzie: No, it's ok. It's ok. It just feels like...Denny: I'm gonna die. Izzie: You're not gonna die, I promise. It's the meds. Cristina: Yeah, we're heading back to flatline. Are you sure we used the right drugs?George: The book said it was right. Meredith: I used the one I know. Izzie: He's not going to die, right? Right? Right?(Flatline for six seconds then heart begins beating again. Bailey enters)Bailey: You fools better have a good explanation for this. Step away from the patient. (Everyone steps back except Izzie) Step away from the patient. Izzie: I can't. I have to pump his heart. (Bailey notices the cut LVAD wire)Bailey: Olivia, take over for Dr. Stevens. Izzie, you're done here. I need you to leave the room. Olivia: Izzie...Izzie: No! Do not touch me!Bailey: Olivia, stay with Dr. Stevens. Help her if she'll let you. You three. Outside. Now! Where was rational thought? Where was cognitive thinking? First do no harm? The morals, the ethics? Where was sanity when you three decided to help that girl? Meredith: We didn't...Bailey: No, no. No speaking. Nobody speaks. I do not want to have to testify against any of you in a court of law. Not one word. She cut his LVAD wire. (George clears his throat) Look, I said no speaking! George: I didn't say anything!Bailey: Then no moving! Cristina. Burke is asking for you. Go! I'm assuming you ran labs? I'm asking a question. Answer me!Meredith: You said no speak...Bailey: I know what I said. Meredith: Yes. Bailey: O'Malley, get me the lab results. Do not pass go. Do not even talk to another living soul. Get the labs! Get back here! Grey...come with me. (Cristina is standing outside of Burke's room)Cristina: How are you? You look good. Are those your films? Oh, Burke...Burke: Shepherd, uh, doesn't know if he can fix my hand. Maybe I'll wait it out. See if this numbness subsides. Cristina: Yeah. Burke: Or I could let Shepherd operate. Cristina: Yeah. Yeah. Burke: I could lose all hand function. What if I can never operate again?Cristina: Yeah. Burke: Cristina: Cristina: Yeah. Burke: Stop saying yeah. Cristina: Ok. Burke: I need...I need...you said you were here. For me. Cristina: Yeah. Oh, sorry. Burke: Cristina.Cristina: Hmm?Burke: I need you to tell me...what you think I should do. Cristina: I...I...I told Dr. Bailey that I would be back. Ok? I...I told her that I wouldn't be long. Burke: Cristina...Cristina: I'm...I'm...I'm...going to think about it. I mean...I'm going to think about it. Ok?(Cristina enters a dark closet. She just stands there breathing deeply.)(Denny's room)Bailey: How you feeling Denny?Denny: Really, really good. Like an athlete or a superhero. Or some other kind of really healthy person. Izzie: You're funny. You're a funny guy. Meredith: Izzie. No speaking. Denny: I cut my own LVAD wires, you know? I went rogue. All by myself. Bailey: Shush. You're weak enough as it is. Please don't waste energy on lying. (Cristina enters the room)Izzie: Dr. Bailey? Bailey: I did indeed say no speaking. Izzie: I don't care! He's gonna get the heart right? You're gonna sign the charts and talk to the transplant coordinator? (George enters the room)George: Here are the labs. Izzie: See? See, his BUN and creatinine are increasing. He clearly has pulmonary edema. He deserves to move up to 1-A status on the transplant list. UNOS will give him the heart. You just have to call. Bailey: Isobel Stevens, I take my medical advice from doctors. You are a visitor. Izzie: What?Bailey: As of now, you are a visitor in this hospital. You will not be a doctor in this hospital again until I decide you are. Olivia, take over the heart pump. Izzie: He gets the heart though, right?(Bailey walks up to Richard who is standing at a nurse's station.)Bailey: Sir? Uh, I need to ask you a hypothetical question. Richard: Can we do this another time?Bailey: Uh, if someone on the staff deliberately unhooked a transplant candidate from his LVAD in an attempt to worsen his condition and get him moved up on the donor list...? Hypothetically, sir. Richard: I think you need to tell me exactly what's going on here, Dr. Bailey: Believe me, sir, you want this to stay a hypothetical. Because I'm thinking if something like that did happen, you'd be duty bound to report it and the hospital would be in danger of losing its accreditation as a transplant site. Richard: So hypothetically?Bailey: Hypothetically, if the patient got worse, would it be unethical for him to receive the heart even though, medically, his worsened condition now puts him at the top of the donor list? Hypothetically? Richard: How bad is he?Bailey: In the few hours it would take a new LVAD to be delivered, he'll be dead. Richard: Our responsibility is to the patient. If, medically, he's at the top of the list, then he should get the heart. Hypothetically. Bailey: Thank you, sir. (she starts to walk away)Richard: But practically? Whoever removed the patient from the LVAD, I expect to be given names and there will be severe, severe consequences. Bailey: Yes, sir. (Mercy West, Dr. Hahn is walking down the hall carrying a cooler. She passes Alex who is on the phone.)Alex: Wait. Hold on. Dr. Hahn? Dr. Hahn!Erica: Can't stop now, Karev. I only have a few hours to get this heart into my guy. Alex: Dr. Hahn. (She stops, and has a knowing look on her face.)Erica: UNOS gave the heart to Seattle Grace. Alex: The transplant coordinator already called and stopped your guy from being prepped. Erica: Oh, come on! He has kids. They're four and five. Do you know how long he's been waiting for this? He's a good person. He deserves a heart. Alex: I'm sorry. Erica: I'll bet you are. Alex: No. I am. Believe me. (She hands Alex the heart.)Alex: Listen, we have a chopper waiting on the roof. Erica: And?(Seattle scenes)(Burke's room, Derek is there)Derek: You could take up fishing. Burke: I don't fish. Derek: Fishing's a lot more fun than surgery. Burke: I have 80 percent hand function now. Derek: Hmm. 80 percent's not enough. Not for you. Burke: Fishing, huh?Derek: You don't fish. (Roof of SGH, the chopper lands and Erica gets out with Alex. SGH hallway, Izzie is escorting Denny through the hall. Bailey gives her a nasty look and he enters the OR area. Burke is going into surgery.) Burke: Shepherd. Derek: You don't have to thank me. I'm sure you'll return the favor one day. Burke: I was going to say, please try not to kill me. (Everyone in the OR laughs)Derek: I'll do my best. Burke: Ok. (Denny's OR. Dr. Hahn is performing the transplant.)Erica: Hmm. Look at that thing. (She lifts out Denny's heart)Alex: Left ventricle's excessively dilated. Bailey: He wouldn't have lasted another hour with this heart. Erica: No, he wouldn't have. (Burke's OR)Derek: Ok, retract that little bit right there. Ok, I am now removing the aneurysm from the nerve cluster. Doctor: NAPs are dropping. Intern: Arterial pressure's down 50 percent. Richard: Did you cut the nerve root?Derek: I don't see any discontinuity of the nerves. All right, lets do a, um, reflex test on his hand. Chief. Richard: Ok. Nothing. Derek: Damn it. Try it again. Richard: Uh-uh. Derek: This doesn't make sense. I'd know if I severed a nerve. Richard: Derek, is the arm paralyzed?Derek: I have to do a wake-up test. Richard: Derek. Derek: There's only one person who can help me figure out whether or not I've damaged the relay or not, and that's Burke. Richard: He's been through a lot of trauma today. Derek: I'm trying to prevent the trauma he's going to feel if I have to tell him he's paralyzed. (George, Cristina, Izzie and Meredith are sitting on the floor below the OR board.)George: Bailey's treating us like we're children. We're not children. We shouldn't have to sit out here like we're on a time out, or something. Meredith: It is a time out. What we did is way in need of a time out. Cristina: You realize we could get kicked out of the program for this?Izzie: Not we. I did this. I did this. And you're probably right. Maybe I should run. But I'd rather be running towards somebody than running away. (Richard walks into the hall)Richard: Yang? Shepherd's asking for you. Cristina: Uh, for Burke's surgery?Richard: Yes. Hurry up. Cristina: Uh...I-I can't. I'm...I'm in a time out. Richard: Time out's over. Right now. Cristina: Yes, sir. Richard: Yang, we need you. (Richard and Cristina walk off) Izzie: He said marry me, right? He did? That really happened?George: It really happened. 'Meredith: It really did. Izzie: Screw this. I'm checking on Denny. (Izzie walks off)(Burke's OR)Derek: Ok. How we doing?Doctor: He's just at the edge of consciousness. Very light. He should be up soon. Derek: Ok. Yang? You're up. Cristina: Oh...what? I'm sorry. What do you need me to do?Derek: When he comes to he's doing to be disoriented and he's probably gonna fight the intubation. We can't numb the arm because we need him to move his fingers. So, he's gonna be in a lot of pain. So we need you to keep him focused, ok? Cristina: Ok. Yeah. Derek: Ok, let's, let's wake him up. Cristina: Burke?(George and Meredith are still sitting in the hallway.)Meredith: Thank you. For calling me about Izzie. George: Hey, I didn't do you any favors. Meredith: Well, it meant something that you called. It meant something to me. George: It didn't mean anything. Meredith: Right. Ok. Sorry. George: Stop saying that you're sorry! You want to know something? I knew. I knew you didn't feel that way about me. Even during...when we were in bed, I knew. I knew and I still let it happen. Because...um...I...I figured that one night with you was better than never. So will you just stop saying that you're sorry cause you didn't know any better. But I did. And...I'm sorry. (They look at each other)George: I'm sorry, Meredith. (Burke's OR)Cristina: Burke, it's Cristina. I'm sorry. Wake up. Wake up. Wake up. Burke. Baby, wake up. Do it for me. Open your eyes. Hi! (He starts fighting)Derek: Get ready. Get ready. Hold him down. Calm him down. Richard: Yang!Derek: Cristina, get in there. Get in his face. Talk to him, Cristina. Richard: Yang!Derek: Get in there. Hold him down. Hold him down. Calm him down. Cristina. (Denny's OR)Erica: Scissors. Alex: It's beautiful work, Dr. Hahn. Erica: The hard part is still to come. All right, let's start taking him off bypass. See if this heart will beat on it's own. Bailey: Nothing.Erica: All right come on, Denny. Beat for me. (Burke's OR)Derek: Cristina! Hold him down, Chief. Hold his arm. Preston? Preston, look at me. Look at me. Right here. Listen, listen. Calm down. Calm down. Calm down. Listen, there was a complication. We can fix it. We need you to move your fingers on your right side. Can you do that? Come on, you can do this. Look at me. Look at me. On your right hand. Ok? I know, I know. It's just you and me. We can do this. Ok. Come on. Focus. Focus. Now you're going to move your fingers on your right hand. Can you do that? Come on, Preston. You can do it. Move your fingers. Move your fingers. Come on. Come on. Come on, come on, come on, come on. (Denny's OR)Bailey: No response. Charge to 20. Erica: Clear. Come on. Come on. Come on. (Alex looks up and sees Izzie in the gallery)(Burke's OR, he is still coughing.)(Denny's OR, Erica is still massaging the heart.)Erica: Come on(Burke's OR, still focused on his hand)(Denny's OR, Izzie watching intently from the gallery)2x27: Losing My ReligionOriginal Airdate: 5/15/2006Written by: Shonda RhimesDirected by: Mark Tinker(Burke's OR, still focused on his hand)(Denny's OR, Izzie watching intently from the gallery)(Burke's OR)Derek: Come on. Come on, come on. Come on. Good. That's good. You're doing good, Dr. Burke. Ok, I need you to touch each finger of your right hand to your thumb. One. Two. You're doing great. Keep going. Three. (Burke looks up to see Cristina standing over him, she walks away.)Richard: One more. Derek: That's good. (Denny's OR)Bailey: Dr. Hahn...Erica: Wait for it. Bailey: Dr. Hahn? He...Erica: Just wait!(All of a sudden the heart starts beating)Erica: And that's how we raise the dead in Erica Land. Bailey: Good job, Denny. (Alex looks up, Izzie is gone. The camera switches to the gallery where she is sitting on the floor, crying. Burke is being wheeled out of surgery, Cristina watches him wheel by. Derek comes out of the OR and goes to sit down at a nurse's station. He looks up and sees Meredith still sitting on the floor.)(Camille's room. Adele is speaking with a woman who just entered the room. Richard is standing in the hallway nearby watching on, Addison walks up.) Addison: Hey. Camille's parents here? Richard: Yes. There aren't any options? Addison: I could do a hysterectomy and ovarectomy, and pick out the remaining ovaries. I mean, we could try chemo, maybe radiation, but the cancer's spread. To her liver, her lungs, her bowel. Even if we were aggressive... Richard: No. Addison: I hate this. I never get used to telling someone their kid's going to drop dead before she's 18. Oh, damn it. I'm sorry. I didn't...I'm not usually this insensitive, Richard, I just...it's just been one of those days. I'm sorry. Richard: It's ok. Addison: I'm gonna go...I mean, do you want to go in? Richard: Oh, no, you go. They'd rather hear it from the treating physician. I got work to get back to. Deal with this Denny Duquette situation. Addison: Ok. (Addison enters the room. Richard stands in the hall and watches as she delivers the bad news. Adele looks up and sees Richard in the hall. Adele closes the door to the room.) (Seattle Scenes)(SGH conference room, the interns are all standing there.)Izzie: I cut the LVAD wire. Meredith: Actually, I cut the LVAD wire. George: No. I did it. I'm the one who cut the wire. (George nudges Cristina)Cristina: Fine. I cut the LVAD wire. Alex: I didn't do anything. I'm totally innocent. Meredith: Alex!Alex: I wasn't even here. He knows I wasn't here. You think he doesn't know that? The guy's not mentally challenged. George: That's not the point. What about loyalty? Cristina: We made a an agreement.(They all begin arguing)Richard: People! I know who did this. So, you might as well come clean. I know. George: With all due respect, sir, if you knew, you wouldn't be asking us. Izzie: I did what...Meredith: You have your suspicions, but you don't actually know. Cristina: Not for sure. George: And you can't do anything to any of us without proof, sir. Richard: Well, one of you compromised a patient's life. One of you stole an organ. One of you jeopardized the integrity of this hospital and of UNOS. Now, you tell me, and you tell me right now! All right, fine. No surgeries. Cristina: Sir? Richard: You heard what I said. No surgeries. No one scrubs in, no one watches from the gallery, no one so much as goes near the OR floor. Until someone confesses, the five of you will share a single patient: Camille Travis. Whatever she wants, the five of you will provide it! Whatever she wants. Now, get the hell out of my sight! George: Wow, he didn't say we were fired. Cristina: He might as well have. No surgeries?Meredith: That wasn't bad. We got off easy. Cristina: Yeah, for now. You think this is over?George: I could really use a good come right now. A nice, long coma. Cristina: You know, there's only been three careers I've ever wanted. Ruler of my own planet, Wonder Woman, or a surgeon. And I don't see any invisible planes or extra countries lying around. Izzie: I will go back and tell him. I will tell him it was me. Meredith: And get kicked out of the program? You will keep your mouth shut. We all will keep our mouths shut. Alex: This is crap. I'm turning her in. Meredith: Alex. Alex: What? You were the one who said we had to stand by Izzie. But now I get stuck catering some V.I.P. chick patient? I don't think so. Izzie: Alex, I am sorry and I really do appreciate what you did for Denny. Alex: Oh, shut up. Look, the only reason I lied to Burke is because I wanted in on that transplant surgery. I don't care about Denny and I hope you get thrown out on your ass. Cristina: Hey! We stick together. You know, we all did this. Nobody's a victim. We...we stick together. (Meredith and Izzie give Cristina strange looks) Damn it. Izzie: Thank you. Cristina: You're welcome. George: We can handle this. Camille Travis is a kid with cancer. So, we give her whatever she wants for a couple days. How hard can that be? (Bailey walks up with Claire and Natalie.)Bailey: Harder than you might think. This is Claire and Natalie. Camille Travis' friends. Claire: Her very best friends in the whole wide world. Bailey: Girls, who exactly is Camille Travis?Natalie: Like, the Chief of Surgery's niece. Bailey: And girls, what does the Chief of Surgery's niece want, exactly?Natalie: Like, a prom. Claire: No. Like, the best prom ever. (George and Alex are in the conference room with Claire and Natalie. Meredith and Cristina are standing outside in the hall.)Claire: We need a theme. George: Theme...Natalie: Ooh! Ooh! Can we have sparkly lights? Because sparkly lights are amazing!Cristina: I didn't like teenage girls when I was a teenage girl. Meredith: I wore a lot of black. Cristina: Oh!Meredith: Hmm. I had the whole angry pink hair thing going on. I wouldn't have been caught dead at a prom. Cristina: Oh, my mother made me go. My date barfed on my dress and then tried to feel me up. Mmm-hmm. Meredith: There's a lot to be said for being an adult. Cristina: Yeah. Meredith: You haven't mentioned Burke. Cristina: No. Meredith: Well, have you checked on him?Cristina: No. Meredith: Ok, I could try harder to make you open up and share and deal with the Burke thing, or I could be neurotic and selfish and talk about me and my problems. Which would be more supportive right now? Cristina: Selfish and neurotic, please. Meredith: Hmm. Finn says Doc's in pain. And Derek and I have to talk about whether we should put him to sleep or not. Which is...And Finn thinks there's something going on between me and Derek. Which there is not. There so clearly is not. And Addison having that whole meltdown? Cristina: Ugh. Meredith: I mean, dogs get sick and we're expected to put them to sleep. People get sick, we don't put them down. We don't just give up on people. There's nothing going on between me and Derek. Cristina: There is a lot to be said for being an adult. Meredith: Yeah. (Denny's room, Izzie is in the hallway, cautiously considering going in. She takes her hair down then steps into the doorway.)Izzie: Is Bailey around?Denny: No, she was in here earlier. Said she'd be back in a couple of hours. The coast is clear. Izzie: You look...God, you look amazing. They always tell you transplant patients rebound fast, but, you know, to see it in person...Denny: I have warm hands. I've never had warm hands because of my circulation. (He holds his hand out) Feel. (Izzie takes his hand) Warm hands and check it out, I have a regular heartbeat. Izzie: Yes, you do. I should, um...I got to go. I would stay, but if Bailey catches me here, she'd...And, uh, you know, the Chief has us doing this prom thing. It's so...But, yeah, I'm really happy for you. You look...Whoo-hoo, Denny. Ok. I'm going to go. Denny: What?Izzie: Huh?Denny: You like your men sick and feeble? You don't dig healthy guys?Izzie: I...I dig you. Denny: Then why are you all swirly and twitchy?Izzie: No, I'm not. Denny: Yeah, you're swirly and twitchy. (Izzie giggles) It's because I asked you to marry me. Izzie: So you remember that?Denny: It's not the kind of thing I'd forget. Izzie: Yeah. Look, Denny, um...I'm giving you an out. Denny: Excuse me? Izzie: Well, I'm giving you an out. I mean, you thought you were dying, and I was saving your life, and you know, everything was so...So I won't hold it against you, or...be hurt or offended if you wanna take your proposal back. I'm giving you an out. Denny: I don't want an out. Izzie: You should take the out. We can't get married. I mean, that would be crazy. Insane. We should date and have sex. Plenty of sex. You know? When you heart gets better, and you're out of the hospital, all the sex you can handle. But marriage is, um...Marriage. I mean... Denny: Ok. It's my turn now. Izzie: But I need to...Denny: No, no, no. We're taking turns. I've decided it's polite and it keeps me from yelling. When it's you turn again, you can talk. For five years, I've had to live by the choices of my doctors. The guys that cut me open...decided my life. There wasn't one choice that was mine. And now I have this heart that beats and works. I get to be like everybody else. I get to make my own decisions, have my own life, do whatever the damn hell I choose. Now, here's the good part, so you listen close. What I choose is you. You're who I want to make up with and go to bed with and do everything in between with. I get a choice now. I get to choose. I choose you Izzie Stevens. Ok. It's your turn again. (Izzie runs out of the room)(Richard and Bailey are standing at a nurse's station.)Richard: They're not talking. Bailey: Wagons have been circled. Richard: I need answers. Somebody's gotta take responsibility. Bailey: I can tell you what I think happened, what I assumed happened. But they're the only ones that know it. Richard: I wanna meet with each of them separately. I will break them. Bailey: Ok. (She starts to walk off)Richard: You have your dress for the prom?Bailey: Excuse me?Richard: I'm going to the prom. If I have to go, everybody has to go. Bailey: What? I'm a grown woman. Richard: (Loudly) Everybody goes to the prom! Everybody!(Conference room where Alex and George are still listening to Claire and Natalie discuss prom preparations.)Claire: Central High? Two years ago, they went with all black and they had like purple lights and...Natalie: Yeah, I remember that. And everybody looked like ghouls. Claire: Fine, we could go with all white. Because I was reading Elle Girl and they were saying...(Alex starts moaning and groaning)George: Are you having a seizure?Alex: Will that get me out of here? Fine, let's go with seizure. Because seizure beats the hell out of a 45-minute conversation about what color balloons we're gonna buy. For the love of God. You people need to get a life. George: Chief's niece. Chief's niece. Claire: It's ok. The hot ones are always mean. It's like a rule or something. Natalie: Doesn't he remind you of Nate Sims?Claire: Totally. He's totally Nate. You're Nate. Alex: No, I'm not Nate. George: Don't engage. Natalie: Nate broke up with Camille the first time she had cancer. Claire: That's the other thing about the hot ones: they're usually cowards. Natalie: Don't you dare try to judge us for trying to make our friend, who just happens to be dying of cancer, happy. The color does matter. Maybe not to you. But it does matter. (George, Meredith Cristina and Alex are talking to Bailey, who is standing at a nurse's station.)George: Not to bother you, but...Bailey: What? One of you better spit out the problem right now!Alex: The problem is the colors and the balloons and the "Under the Sea." "No, it's Titanic." "Hey, let's go with Tears in Heaven." "No, it's too morbid." "It should be pink." "It should be red." "It should be a freaking rainbow." George: What he's saying is that we're very, very hopeful that you speak teenage girl. (Back in the conference room)Bailey: Silver and white. It's mystical and magical, without being over the top. Ever see fashion week in New York? Lots of silver and white runways and backdrops. That's because no matter what color the clothes are, they pop. Natalie: They pop?Bailey: They pop?Claire: Sounds good. Natalie: Yeah. Bailey: O'Malley and Karev, get 500 balloons in silver and white and 100 in black. Shiny black, not the matte. Yang, stick with Camille, keep her happy, keep her spirits up. Make sure she has her shoes, dress and makeup on standby. Grey, get with Patricia. Make sure we can rope off the second-floor nurses' station and the waiting area. And get some catering menus. Got it? Oh, no, no. You don't get to look at me like that. No, you compromised my medical license. You nearly killed a patient, lied to the Chief of Surgery, and made me, your resident look bad. We're gonna do this prom and we're doing it right. Move!(On-call room, George, Alex and Izzie are inflating balloons.)George: Uh, there's an emergency appendectomy happening in OR 1, right now, as we speak. Izzie: Again, I'm sorry. Alex: Stop saying you're sorry when you're not. You make me sick. (Alex leaves as Callie enters)George: Nice. Callie: Hey. George: Hey. Callie: Um, can we talk?George: Yeah. (Hands Izzie a balloon) Hold it. (George is now in the hall with Callie.)George: Hey. Callie: You never called. George: What?Callie: Last night. We had plans and you went off with Izzie and you never called. You said you would. George: Yeah, a lot of stuff went down last night. Callie: Yeah, I know. I heard, everybody heard. So what exactly happened?George: I can't talk about it. Callie: Oh, come on. I'm not going to tell, George. It's me. George: Look, it's Vegas. What happened in that room stays in that room. Callie: Ok. Yeah, I get it. George: Hey. Do you want to go to prom with me?Callie: No, George. No, I don't want to go to prom with you. (Callie walks off and George goes back into the on-call room)Izzie: What was that about?George: She said she loved me. Izzie: Oh. Oh. (Meredith is in the hallway and turns a corner and runs into Finn.)Meredith: Oh! Hey.Finn: I've been calling you cell all night?Meredith: Um...oh, well, uh, it's a long story, which essentially ends with me inviting you to a prom. Finn: An actual prom? A...corsages and tuxedos?Meredith: Yeah, I know it's stupid, but...Finn: No. I'm in. I loved prom. I mean, I don't want to brag or anything, but I was crowned king. Meredith: Really? You were that kid in high school?Finn: What is wrong with being that kid?Meredith: Nothing. It's very cute, actually. Finn: Hello. Meredith: Hi. What are you doing here?Finn: Doc had some seizures last night. Pretty serious. The cancer spread to his brain. I'm sorry. (Derek is standing in front of the OR board, Addison walks up to him.)Addison: Hey. Derek: Hey. Addison: How's Preston?Derek: He's recovering nicely. Addison...Addison: I don't want to talk about it. Derek: All right. Addison: I mean we've come so far. You forgave me for Mark and we're trying. Derek: We are. Addison: We are trying. Derek: We're trying. Addison: And I was jealous when there was no need to be. Right?Derek: Addison?Addison: What?Derek: Will you go to the prom with me?(They smile at each other)(Burke's room, he is looking at his hand. It has a tremor. Cristina walks up to the window outside the room. His hand has another tremor. He looks up and sees her standing outside.) (Conference room, where the chief is "grilling" each of the interns.)Alex: I went to college on a wresting scholarship. I played baseball, some basketball, but you know we'll go with football...Richard: What the hell does football have to do with who cut the LVAD wires?Alex: Let's say you were drafter to a team that wasn't your first pick. You know, you don't like the players. You hate the way they play the game. You even think the quarterback is full of crap. Now the quarterback's a pain in the ass that you don't owe a damn thing to, but...it's your team. You don't quit. You don't talk to the press. You don't bitch to the coach. You just...you just go out there every Sunday and you make the blocks and you take the hits and you play to win. You show up and you suit up and you play. Because it's your freaking team. Richard: I know your type. You're a surgical junkie. (The camera flips back to look at the intern and Cristina is not sitting there.)Cristina: Yes, sir. Richard: I'm just saying, it's not going to be easy for you to be away from the OR that long. Cristina: No, sir. Richard: And if you want to get back to the OR, you're gonna tell me what I want to know. Aren't ya?Cristina: You're right. It's not easy for me to be away from the OR. It's not easy for me to sit in front of you, or any other authority figure for that matter and not be able to give you the exact answer you want to hear. I'm the one with the answers. I've always been the one with the answers. But right now, sir, I don't have any. Richard: Dr. Yang...Cristina: How do you keep your edge, sir? Because I watch you. And you've been doing this a long time. You're clean and your focused. You are the job. Nothing gets to you. And the thing is, sir. I was like that. Until I got here. Until I actually started doing this job and now everything is...is fuzzy. Richard: That's besides the point. Cristina: No, see, sir, this is the point. Because I can't tell you. What happened in that room...I can't tell you. And before, I could have. No guilt, no loyalties, no problem. Before...before I wouldn't have even been in that room. I wouldn't have gotten involved. I would have never frozen in surgery. And I would have told him what I thought he should do. I had an edge, sir. I had an edge and I've lost it. And I need it. I need it back. (Tears in her voice) So if you could just tell me how you keep yours and how not to be affected, I know I could be a great surgeon. So, if you could just give me the answers, I would really appreciate it. (A tear streams down her face) Richard: You're excused, Dr. Yang. Cristina: But...Richard: You're excused. Cristina: I'll tell you who cut the LVAD wires, sir, if you could just please...Richard: No, you won't. I don't want to know. Not from you. Yeah, I have the answers, but I can't tell them to you. I'm not going to be responsible for you becoming less human. (Izzie is now in the room)Izzie: I'm a pretty girl. Richard: What?Izzie: I'm not being arrogant. It's just...it's just kind of a fact. For a long time, I made a career from my looks, so I get it. I'm a pretty girl. And not in a "from-a-certain-angle" way. In an obvious way. It's the blonde thing. And the big boobs thing. Big boobs are key to "obvious" pretty, if you know what I'm saying. Richard: Dr. Stevens...Izzie: It's how men see me. I'm not a smart girl or an interesting girl. I'm a pretty girl. The blonds and the boobs, it confuse guys into thinking that I'm someone else. And I'm used to it. I'm used to them walking away when they realize...but then Denny goes and asks me to marry him. Richard: Is that why you cut the wires?Izzie: He doesn't make me feel like I'm a pretty girl. He makes me feel like...like me. I think he might know me. And so, if I did cut the LVAD wire, and I'm not saying that I did, but if I did...then no. I don't feel guilty. And I know that I should. And I would if it were anybody else. But I can't feel anything but happy. (George is now sitting there)George: Are you gonna...say anything or...? I'm not gonna break. I'm starting to get a little freaked out, but I'm not gonna break. It's not because I don't care. Cause I do care what you think about me. I do...care. I just can't tell you what you want to hear. Which seems to be a theme in my life right now. Just cause you can't say something doesn't mean you don't want to. You can want to very much. You can be with a person and be happy with them, and not love them. And you can love someone and not want to be with them. You don't need to...love someone...to want them. But it's frustrating. You know, when you brain tells you what you want and what you actually want don't match up, it's exhausting. And...well, it's complicated. But that's life. And life...sucks. (Meredith is now sitting there)Richard: I've known you for a long time. I know your mother and father. And I know, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that you did not cut those LVAD wires. Meredith, I need you to tell me who did it. Meredith: I've been going over this and over this in my mind trying to piece this together. It was you. You were the reason my parents broke up. And it wasn't just an affair. She really loved you. It wasn't just this cheap thing where she didn't tell you she was married. It wasn't all a lie. She left her husband for you. But you stayed with your wife because it was the right thing to do. Maybe safe, but she was the right person for you to be with. And let's face it, my mother? Nothing wrong with being safe. Being with the good buy because he's good. And we are talking about forever here. You've never regretted your decision. You've never looked back. Right? (Meredith opens a door to a waiting room where Derek is sitting in a chair)Meredith: Finn says we need to make a decision about Doc. Derek: Good for Finn. Meredith: Can we just do this? Derek: Fine. Meredith: I think, we may have to put him to sleep. Derek: Whatever. Meredith: Can we just do this one thing together without arguing? What if there's a chance he can get better?Derek: He's not going to get better. You know that. Meredith: Well, Finn things we should do it today, then. So I guess I'll go over there. Be there. Derek: What time?Meredith: Are you coming?Derek: He's my dog. (Izzie runs into Denny's room. Bailey is in there.)Izzie: Denny!Bailey: What did I tell you? Visiting hours aren't for another hour. You are no longer his doctor. You wanna see Denny, you come back when the visitors come. Izzie: I would, but I can't wait. Denny: Ixnay on the insubordinationay. Izzie: But it's my turn. Bailey: If the Chief finds out you were even on this floor...Denny: Hold on. It's her turn. Izzie: Yes. My answer is yes. Denny: Oh, now see, you're going to make my heart stop beating and it's brand new. (Izzie walks over to Denny)Bailey: I will call security on you. Izzie: Ok. I will come back during visiting hours. And it's prom, so I'll show you my dress. Denny: Ok. Izzie: I'm going. Denny: Izzie. You did good. (To Bailey) I tricked her into marrying me. How smart am I?(Burke's room, Cristina is hovering in the doorway)Cristina: We're throwing a prom. Chief's making us throw a prom. Burke: O'Malley mentioned. Cristina: George came to see you?Burke: He's my friend. Cristina: Oh. Burke: I won't bear a grudge. Cristina: What did you...?Burke: I have to take care of me. I don't expect you to take care of me. But I have to take care of me. If this...if you can't stay here for this...I won't bear a grudge. Cristina: Are you going to tell Shepherd about...Burke: Not yet. I'm, uh...not yet. (Cristina leaves)(Finn's office. Meredith, Derek and Addison are there to put Doc to sleep)Finn: Ok. There's a couple of forms you need to sign. (Derek and Meredith both reach for the form) I only need one signature. Derek: You? Meredith: It's fine. Addison: Here, I'll sign. Meredith: So, how do we do this?Finn: Well, I'll give Doc an injection of terazole to make him sleepy, and then I'll give him an IV injection of pheonbarbitol. Derek: And that will stop his heart?Finn: Yes. Meredith: And what do we do after? With his body?Finn: We can...We have the means to dispose of it for you. Derek: That's fine. Go ahead. Meredith: We can't throw him away like he's garbage. Finn: We would never...Meredith: He's our dog, Derek.Derek: There's uh, clearing by the trailer. Meredith: Overlooking the water?Derek: We can, uh, bury him there. Addison: That sounds nice. Finn: You ready?Meredith: Yeah. (To Doc) I'm so sorry, Doc. Derek: I'm sorry too. (Addison's pager beeps)Addison: It's the hospital. I got to go. Derek: Ok. Addison: Ok. Finn: Ok. I'll begin. Meredith: (To Doc) It's ok. It's ok. It's ok. (Meredith is crying and Derek keeps looking at her. She is petting Doc and Derek touches her hand. Finn checks Doc's heart)Finn: He's gone. Meredith?Meredith: No, I have to go home and change. I'll see you later, ok?Finn: Meredith. I'm sorry. For your loss. Meredith: Yeah. You know, the thing is he wasn't really my dog for that long. He was more Derek's dog. Derek: Meredith. He was a good dog. Meredith: He was. (The hospital prom. The room is full of people dancing and having a good time.)Bailey: Oh, I'm too tired for this. Cristina: Where's your husband, Dr. Bailey?Bailey: Uh, at home with the baby. That you would at least get to get out of this. Cristina: Why?Bailey: Well, with Burke upstairs. What happened to him, I'm sure the Chief would have let you out. Cristina: Yeah. (Another part of the prom)Derek: Oh, God. Finn: Hey. Derek: Hey. Finn: You seen Meredith?Derek: I don't think she's here yet. (Derek and Finn both look up to see Meredith enter. She is dressed in a sparkly black dress and looks stunning. Finn walks away and Addison walks up.) Addison: This whole thing brings back very traumatic memories of being a band geek with braces and the lisp. (Derek is still looking at Meredith) Spending the whole evening with Skippy Gold talking about Star Wars. (Derek watches Meredith and Finn embrace) Derek: Hmm. I hated Star Wars. Addison: Hmm. Thank God. This is terrible. Derek: It's bad. So, you want to, um, dance?Derek: Love to. (Another part of the prom, Richard, Claire and Natalie are watching Camille and Brian dance. Richard walks up and taps Brian on the shoulder.) Richard: Can I cut in?(Brian scampers off looking scared)Camille: What did you say to my boyfriend to make him that scared of you?Richard: I'm a frightening man, Cammie. Camille: No, you're not. Richard: Where Brian's concerned, yes, I am. Camille: Be kind to him. He loves me. I've been loved. And that's something everyone should have once in their life. I've been loved. I have that. Thank you for the prom, Uncle Richard. Richard: You're welcome. (Callie is walking through the hall and George sees her)George: Hey, I was looking for you...Where are you going?Callie: I'm wearing a dress, I have on heels, I shaved my legs. I'm going to the prom. George: You said that you didn't want to go. Callie: No, I said I didn't want to go with you. George: Callie!Callie: I said I love you. I said it. I said it out loud to your face. And ever since, you...I've never said that to a guy before. Never. And now I am just this idiot who says I love you and then gets avoided. George: No. I'm not avoiding you. I promise. Callie: You gonna say it back?George: No. Callie: I'm humiliated.(He grabs her arm)Callie: No. No. George. Let me go. George, let me go!(He pushes her against the wall)George: Wait. Callie: Let me go. Let me go. George: Stop fighting me! If I say it back right now, you'll know I'm just saying it because you said it to me. When...when I say I love you... I want to mean it, because...you just have to give me some time to mean it. Callie: I hate that I'm so into you. (They start kissing)(Back at the prom, Derek is dancing with Addison while watching Meredith who is dancing with Finn)Finn: You're a lot hotter than my last prom date. Meredith: Is that a compliment?Finn: Maybe. Meredith: It feels like a compliment. Finn: Well, then it is. Meredith: Well, keep it up. You might get lucky. Finn: Well, now, how lucky are we talking? Are we talking kind of lucky? Or are we talking really, seriously lucky?Meredith: You have been a very patient man and I appreciate it. (He sighs) What?Finn: Liz, uh...Liz was my wife. And when she died...You do this thing, you know, where you stop making plans. Because you had plans, but then there was a car crash and your plans disappeared. So you just...I just try and get from sunup till sundown. That's as far into the future as I can handle. And I've been fine with that. I have. But right now, looking at you...Damn, I have all kinds of plans. Don't freak out. Meredith: I'm not. Finn: You're not?Meredith: No. You have plans. Finn: I have plans. (Meredith looks up and sees Derek who is looking at her.)Finn: You all right?Meredith: Yeah, just um, hot. And claustrophobic. Derek: (To Addison) There's a patient I forgot to check on. Meredith: (To Finn) You know, I'm just going to run and splash some cold water on my face. Derek: (To Addison) Be right back, ok?Meredith: (To Finn) Be right back, ok?Addison: OkFinn: All right.(Meredith is running through the hall, Derek is running after her.)Derek: Meredith. Meredith: Leave me alone. Derek: Meredith. (Meredith enters an exam room and Derek follows)Meredith: Just leave me alone. Derek: I just want to make sure you're all right. Meredith: No! I'm not all right! Ok? Are you satisfied? I'm not all right! Because you have a wife and you call me a whore and our dog died and now you're looking at me. Stop looking at me! Derek: I'm not looking at you. I am not looking at you!Meredith: You are looking at me! And you watch me. And Finn has plans and I like Finn. He's perfect for me! And I'm really trying here to be happy! And I can't breathe! I can't breathe with you looking at me like that! So just stop! Derek: Do you think I want to look at you? That I wouldn't rather be looking at my wife? I'm married. I have responsibilities. She doesn't drive me crazy. She doesn't make it impossible for me to feel normal! She doesn't make me sick to my stomach thinking about my veterinarian touching her with his hands! Oh, man, I would give anything not to be looking at you! (She turns to face him and he kisses her)(Alex is walking up the stairs as Izzie is coming down them)Alex: Oh! You look nice. Izzie: Thank you. So do you. Hot date?Alex: Nah. This thing is cheesy. I wouldn't waste a decent chick on this. You heading in?Izzie: Yeah. Just going to see Denny first. Alex: (disappointed) Oh. Ok. (Denny's room, he is sitting in bed smiling)(Exam room, Derek and Meredith are still kissing. She is sitting on the exam table as he takes off her underwear. She takes off his jacket. He kisses her neck) (Denny's room. He appears to be in pain. He grips his chest. His monitor flatlines.)(Izzie is in the elevator, fidgeting and smiling.)(Exam room where Derek and Meredith have just finished having sex)Derek: What does this mean?Meredith: Uh, I had panties on. Black. Do you see them?Derek: Meredith, what does this mean?Meredith: Help me look for them. And fix your tie. Derek: Meredith. What does this mean?(Callie enters with a shocked look on her face.)Callie: Oh, the nurse told me to come find you. You have to come now. It's Izzie. Callie: (Stops her and fixes her dress) Wait, wait, wait. Ok, go.(Callie looks back at Derek and gives him a nasty look)(Richard is sitting in a dark gallery when Bailey enters)Bailey: Chief. Richard: Did my internship here. My residency. Came back here the minute my fellowship was done. The day they told me I would be Chief, I was standing right there in that OR when I got the news. Spent my whole career in this hospital. My whole life. Bailey: Sir...Denny Duquette died at 7:42 this evening. Richard: Damn it. (George, Meredith, Cristina and Callie run up to Denny's room, Olivia is standing outside)George: What happened?Olivia: I didn't know what to do. I didn't think you guys would want me to go to the Chief but...Cristina: Where is she?Olivia: She's in there with him. (They all enter the room where Izzie is lying on the bed with Denny.)Cristina: Izzie...Izzie: I think it was a stroke. He was prone to blood clots. A clot could have formed on his sutures and traveled to his brain. It only takes a second. Meredith: Iz...Izzie: Dr. Hahn did a beautiful job on the surgery. But I don't know why I didn't think of blood clots. He died all alone. He was alone. George: There was nothing you could have done. Izzie: I changed my dress three times. I wanted to look nice. I would have been here sooner... but I couldn't figure out which dress to wear. George: Izzie. We shouldn't be in here. Meredith: Iz, there are things that they need...they need to move him. Izzie: Take him to the morgue. Cristina: You can't stay here. I know you want to. Izzie: Can you please...please just get out? I want to be alone with Denny. (Alex enters)Alex: Izzie, that's not Denny. Izzie: Shut up. Alex: Iz, that's not Denny. The minute his heart stopped beating, he stopped being Denny. Now, I know you love him, but he also loved you. And a guy that loves you like that, he doesn't want you to do this to yourself. Because it's not Denny. Not anymore. Izzie: An hour ago he was proposing. And now...And now he's going to the morgue. Isn't that ridiculous? (She starts sobbing) Isn't that the most ridiculous piece of crap you've ever heard? Alex: Come on. (Alex picks her up and carries her to a chair and holds her in his arms.)(Burke's room, his hand is still having tremors, Cristina stands at the door for a moment and then walks in and grabs his hand.)(Finn and Addison are standing in the hallway when Derek walks out)Addison: I'm sorry, there are ridic...Hey. Derek: Hi. Addison: Where've you been?Derek: Uh, I was with...(Richard and Bailey walk up)Richard: Shepherd. Derek: Yes. Richard: Uh, have you seen Bailey's interns? Grey? Yang? I'm looking for Izzie Stevens in particular. Derek: No. No. Bailey: Chief. (They all look up to see Izzie walking out followed by George, Alex and Meredith.) Izzie: It was me. I cut his LVAD wire. I did it. No one helped me. And now...I thought I was a surgeon, but...I can't. I thought I was a surgeon, but I'm not. So I quit. Bailey: Izzie. (Izzie leaves with Alex and George behind her.)Addison: I guess that...puts an end to the evening. Derek: Yeah. Richard: Yeah, I guess it does. (Addison, Richard and Bailey walk off. Finn walks over to Meredith.)Finn: Come on. I'll drive you home. (She stands there, she looks at Derek. Derek looks at Finn. She looks at Finn who turns around and looks at her and then at Derek.)Derek: Meredith? (She looks at Derek)Finn: Meredith?(She looks at Finn. Finn and Derek exchange glances.)